 Tony Blair is engaged in low politics on fox-hunting.
The timing of this, his third initiative, seems to have been influenced by the need to get Stephen Byers through his trial by ordeal in the House of Commons on Tuesday.
Not only did it reward Labour backbenchers for their show of loyalty, but it helped move the media caravan on from the semantics of lying by presenting them with a new - or, rather, renewed - controversy.
However, Labour backbenchers are not so stupid that they can be bought off with yet another meaningless vote that allows them to express their opinions and is then forgotten.
Equally, public opinion, which on this issue is wrong but unmistakable, would not easily understand another marching of the abolitionist troops up the hill only for them to be marched down again.
Most people think that hunting with dogs is cruel, that it should be banned and that the Government should get on with it.
The real low politics of Mr Blair's return to this subject, therefore, is that of reaching a compromise with the House of Lords.
Whatever the presentational value with his own party of occasional confrontations with the 'forces of conservatism' in red coats and on horseback, the Prime Minister is unlikely to want to provoke another full-dress showdown with the 'countryside' lobby.
The last time he picked a fight with them, the Deputy Prime Minister and a protester had to be prised apart in a flower-bed in Rhyl in the middle of a general election campaign.
On 18 March, the Commons will undoubtedly vote, overwhelmingly again, for a complete ban on hunting.
If left to themselves, the Lords would just as overwhelmingly vote to leave things as they are.
Mr Blair may hope that the threat of the Parliament Act - which requires the will of the Commons ultimately to prevail over that of the upper House - will encourage the Lords to opt for the compromise instead.
Getting the Lords to decide that the 'Middle Way' compromise scheme is the lesser of two evils depends, however, on the credibility of the threat to use the Parliament Act.
The Lords could call Mr Blair's bluff if they judge that he really would not want to have the so-called countryside march on Whitehall again.
This is no way to decide an issue of principle.
The majority of people in Britain confuse their distaste for a minority pursuit with the instinct that 'there ought to be a law against it'.
There should not be, just as there should be no law against the rather more popular sport of angling.
The undue attention devoted to one particular means of culling animals owes too much to the perceived class connotations of 'country sports' and sanctimony about humans deriving pleasure from it.
What requires legislation is the less visible cruelty towards factory-farmed chickens and pigs, and towards other animals in transit, not to mention cruel and unnecessary experiments on primates.
A compromise between a ban on hunting and no ban is dishonest.
The idea of licensed or regulated cruelty makes no sense.
It would be better if the Prime Minister and all those MPs who vote for a ban simply to earn easy applause from a vocal and passionate minority of their constituents were courageous enough to explain to the voters that, while some activities may offend our sensibilities, they should not all be banned.
The Middle Way is a classic Blairite fudge.
It is unlikely to satisfy either side - although the anti-hunters are likely to be the more disappointed, because hunting would continue, with only some of its more repellent excesses curtailed.
The Prime Minister would earn a great deal more respect if he said what he really thought and explained and defended that, instead of trying to fix his way out of a political problem.
Today in the European Parliament's chamber in Brussels, 105 men and women from 28 European nations will gather to begin discussing a constitutional settlement for Europe.
Europe has a constitution now, of course, but, in its various official languages, it runs into literally millions of pages of legislation, council decisions and commission directives, known collectively as the 'acquis' - not exactly a household term in Europe's salons and saunas.
This tangle of laws and regulations has long cried out to be formulated into a few simple rules, with the paramount aim of bringing Europe closer to its people, as the jargon goes.
The question is whether the Constitutional Convention, now assembled under the leadership of the former French president Valry Giscard d'Estaing, is an appropriate vehicle to deliver a new constitutional settlement.
Certainly the choice of Mr Giscard to run things doesn't inspire a great deal of confidence.
The fact that he is old should be no obstacle, although his slightly sleazy past (remember the Bokassa diamonds scandal?)
detracts a little from his dignity.
The more serious drawback with Mr Giscard is simply the suspicion that he will guide the convention in a direction that reflects the traditional French approach to governance - not so much libert, fraternit, egalit as litisme, dirigisme, technocratie.
That trinity was, in fact, very much the foundation of the institutions of the original European Community as set out in the Treaty of Rome of 1957.
It was the vision of Jean Monnet and Robert Schumann, the French founding fathers of the community, and of the Comit d'Action pour les Etats-Unis d'Europe that they founded.
These arrangements worked well for the small community of the Six, but in a union of 15 they are distinctly creaky.
All agree that in a union of 25 or 30 - the position we could easily be in before the decade is out - such arrangements would be unsustainable.
The danger is that Mr Giscard, a typical product of the French lite, will simply want to give us 'more of the same', but with a much stronger centre.
That would mean a stronger Commission and a 'leadership' role for the big five (France, the UK, Germany, Italy and Spain) to cope with the demands of a 30-state union.
Indeed, worries about expansion leading to a wider but looser EU underlay the French government's past resistance to welcoming new members from Scandinavia and the east.
Still, there are reasons to be optimistic.
Mr Giscard will not be able to have things all his own way in a 105-member commission, especially as the British are providing its chief executive in the form of Sir John Kerr, a supermandarin and diplomat.
And the Laeken Declaration that set up the convention declared that 'European institutions must be brought closer to citizens.
They want them to be less unwieldy and more efficient and open.'
That cannot be ignored.
By far the best way of ensuring that Europe is brought closer to its people is to provide for a stronger European Parliament.
Until that is done, there is very little chance of a truly pan-European party system developing and, with that, a European level of debate.
More sessions of the European Council should be open to the cameras and the public.
And, most importantly, there should be a much stronger formal commitment to the principle of subsidiarity, with more decision-making devolved to national, regional and local levels.
More than ever, in a union of 30 states, Europe should concentrate on performing the tasks - in the economic, environmental and even defence fields - where it can make a difference.
Surely Mr Giscard has to understand that.
The prospect of meeting an old but long-separated schoolfriend can trigger far more fear than joy.
Did the charismatic soul who thrilled your teenage self evolve into a bore, a prig, an oaf?
Worse, did they never possess the virtues you innocently pinned to them?
What applies to people applies, in spades, to literature.
To re-read a favourite author of one's youth is to court incredulity, and even self-disgust.
How could I have rated that pretentious garbage/sentimental schlock?
Around the age of 15, I adored John Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath almost more than any other novel.
Soon enough, I learnt this was an inadmissible affection.
Too folksy, too naturalistic, stylistically immature, politically nave: the hit squads of academic criticism had dropped down hard on Steinbeck even before his death in 1968.
He was born - in Salinas, California - on 27 February 1902, and next week Allen Lane publishes an ample selection of his non-fiction to mark the centenary: Of Men and their Making, edited by Susan Shillinglaw and Jackson J Benson (25).
Of course, I opened it with trepidation.
Would Steinbeck prove as cringingly embarrassing as every other 15-year-old crush?
I need not have worried.
Of Men and their Making is a constant delight, a generous, open-hearted vaudeville show of a book that switches from elegantly crafted memoirs to frivolous pieces on fishing or Fords, from thrilling reportage to sinewy meditations on politics and culture.
Not all of it is perfect, or profound.
Steinbeck wrote reams of journalism over three decades, and one leading item on the academic charge-sheet states that he squandered too much talent on ephemera.
But, all in all, his praise for Mark Twain's 'incredible ear and eye and sense of form' as a subjective observer goes for Steinbeck, too.
Here is the democratic American voice in all its glory: friendly, courageous, compassionate, keen to go everywhere, see everything, and capture it all in pacy, spirited prose that can swing between high ideas and street life without missing a beat.
The collection teems with hundreds of images and phrases that kick, and bite, and stay - from the childhood memory of a phonograph that 'leaped from a shelf and destroyed itself' in the California earthquake of 1906 to the vision of Bob Hope in London in 1943, wisecracking to a hospital ward of maimed soldiers and magically drawing 'laughter up out of the black water'.
We revisit the beautifully-evoked California towns of Steinbeck's youth; and we follow him into the itinerant workers' camps of the Dust Bowl years, in articles that mount a ringing defence of the dignity of 'economic migrants'.
The editors choose some grittily memorable wartime reportage; some charming accounts of postwar Europe; and portraits of his friends, from Woody Guthrie and Robert Capa to Henry Fonda.
(Watching John Ford's fine film of The Grapes of Wrath after 20 years, Steinbeck is galvanised when this 'lean, stringy, dark-faced piece of electricity walked out on the screen').
Even the 1966 text of a photo book on America and Americans, written when he had allegedly gone soft, is typically abrasive about his countrymen's taste for narcissism and racism: 'from the first we have treated our minorities abominably, the way the old boys do the new kids in school.'
Steinbeck was not always prescient (like many other US liberals, he supported the early stages of the war in Vietnam).
Yet these 400 pages rattle by without a snide thought, a cheap shot or a dead sentence from beginning to end.
At a time when establishment America takes on the sepulchral tones of Donald Rumsfeld (or the silences of Kenneth Lay), this book could achieve more for the nation's prestige overseas than a hundred extra CIA recruits.
In the list of picture captions you never thought you'd see in the pages of a serious newspaper, '160-million-year-old vomit' is right up there with 'Joan Collins and her new husband, also 68'.
But '160 million-year-old vomit' was precisely the caption in Tuesday's papers, relating to the thrilling discovery of fossilised dinosaur puke in a clay quarry near Peterborough.
Let's leave to the panellists of Have I Got News for You the cheap gibe that the Daily Telegraph - with a substantial number of fossils and dinosaurs among its readers - was stirring nostalgia rather than publishing bona fide news.
Instead, let's consider what a fabulous discovery this is, beyond even Steven Spielberg's wildest dreams.
Professor Peter Doyle, of the University of Greenwich, believes that the fossils found near Peterborough are partly-digested shellfish regurgitated by ichthyosaurs, marine reptiles.
How he reached this conclusion is not the business of this column, thank God (not, of course, that the Almighty has any place in palaeontology).
But it is certainly interesting to dwell on the significance of his conclusion.
For one thing, it heaps enviable prestige upon Peterborough, which until this week had only its handsome Norman cathedral to boast about.
But there aren't too many places in the world able to demonstrate proof that an ichthyosaur once chundered somewhere in the vicinity.
Thinking about it, though, it is quite possible that the people of Peterborough would rather not adopt this as a claim to fame, just as the townsfolk of Slough tend not to put it about that John Betjeman once wrote a poem about them.
As for the vomiting side of the equation, I don't know if you've noticed, but throwing-up has been looming large in popular culture.
Billy Connolly was one of the first to draw attention to it, wondering why drunkards being sick call so despairingly for Ralph and Huey.
And although vomiting was one of the last human bodily functions to get a regular airing on television, rare is the drama now that does not feature at least one person spewing into a toilet.
Certainly, no self-respecting soap lets New Year's Eve go without a character chucking up after too much alcohol; we have even had animated vomit, on The Simpsons.
I mention this because, until now, palaeontology has rubbed shoulders with popular culture only in the BBC series Walking With Dinosaurs - which, as brilliant as it was, tended to drag once you'd marvelled at the special effects for long enough - and in the irritating form of Ross in the sitcom Friends.
But Professor Doyle's discovery changes everything.
I have a six-year-old son who knows the difference between a protoceratops and a diplodocus like he knows the difference between baked beans and strawberry jam.
However, he has been to the Natural History Museum dozens of times and it no longer lights his fire.
When I told him about the ichthyosaur pebble-dashing parts of Cambridgeshire with shellfish, however, he was all ears.
He was plainly enthralled by the idea that anything Jurassic might behave in the same way as he did the other night after a tummy bug brought up his spaghetti bolognese.
Might behave, better still, like Bart Simpson.
What is needed now is for an enterprising children's telly producer, perhaps the person behind that sickeningly cute dinosaur Barney, to make a show about twin ichthyosaurs called Ralph and Huey.
And the thought also occurs that some graduate student might want to consider a thesis on the enthralling history of vomit.
I was once shown round a vomitorium, where middle-class Romans went to bring back their dinners.
It was fascinating.
But I can't for the life of me remember where it was.
For Peterborough's sake, not there, I hope.
