 The decision of the Human Fertility and Embryology Authority (HFEA) to allow a couple to select genetically their next baby was bound to raise concerns that advances in biotechnology are racing ahead of our ability to control the consequences.
The couple at the centre of this case have a son who suffers from a potentially fatal disorder and whose best hope is a marrow transplant from a sibling, so the stakes of this decision are particularly high.
The HFEA's critics believe that it sanctions 'designer babies' and does not show respect for the sanctity of individual life.
Certainly, the authority's backing for Shahana and Raj Hashmi's plea for genetic screening raises fundamental questions about producing one human being to cure another's disease.
But the parents' view is simple and compelling.
The IVF treatment is available to help produce a baby whose tissue will match his or her elder brother's bone marrow.
They require, as Mrs Hashmi puts it, 'a helping hand' from the HFEA.
Screening for genetic disorders has been permissible for some time.
Those who oppose the treatment on grounds that it echoes destructive eugenics programmes have misplaced their concern.
The use of such techniques to weed out genes that might result in a disability does not suggest that disabled people are 'defective'.
It merely uses progress to prevent a malfunction of nature.
They would not reject medical intervention to put right other things that go wrong with the body.
Yet they ask that mankind pass up the chance to use scientific advances in biotechnology to prevent unnecessary suffering.
The inconsistency is striking and would be cruel if it were allowed to impede a beneficial solution.
The HFEA already backed tissue-type screening in principle in December.
This latest move is a logical advance.
We can welcome that and still accept the need to maintain the distinction between these and more frivolous or dubious reasons why parents might want to opt for genetic pre-selection.
That is why it is also right that the HFEA continues to reject genetic pre-selection if it helps parents choose gender, let alone more superficial preferences for a certain appearance.
Grounds of pure preference are not enough to make parental choice paramount and the authority should resist pressure to give in on this point.
The Hashmis' aim is very different.
They are concerned with saving a life, as well as creating one.
They and their doctors may reject other embryos as imperfect matches, but they are not selecting their baby as if it were a designer coat or handbag.
This is a clear case of maximising benefits and minimising harm.
The parents want another child, and their existing son will be the beneficiary.
Critics of such technology warn that the child is to be used as a means rather than an end in itself.
Instead of being valued for his or her own sake, they say, the next Hashmi baby's raison d'tre will be his life-saving qualities.
Yet in wanting their child to serve a certain purpose, this couple is merely following in the footsteps of countless couples before them: couples who have wanted a child to boost their own relationship, or provide their first-born with a sibling.
The Hashmis' decision is like that of any other couple who want the best for their child.
Shahana and Raj Hashmi will undoubtedly love their next baby as much as their first.
As David Beckham discovered to his cost, the manager of Manchester United likes to have the last word.
Which is why he's signed up for another 3 years and 11m.
One of the defining moments of Sir Alex Ferguson's glorious but often contentious career as manager of Manchester United came in February 2000 when David Beckham, his star player, failed to report for training.
Beckham said his baby son was ill, and that he needed to be at home with him.
Fair enough.
But when Ferguson discovered that Beckham's wife Victoria was out shopping at the time, he hit the roof.
According to someone who knows him well, the publicity machine that surrounds the Beckhams has always been intensely irritating to him.
Now, by his lights, Beckham was letting the side down, and in Ferguson's book there is no greater sin.
For the next match Beckham was kicked out of the team.
He wasn't even a substitute.
It seemed unthinkable to drop Beckham - to put a personal squabble, as some saw it, before the interests of the team.
But Ferguson had done it.
What the incident really betrayed was a clash of cultures - a 21st-century, new-man touchy-feeliness on the one hand, and on the other, the hard, man's world that shaped Ferguson, growing up among the Scottish working class in the 1950s.
It certainly wasn't one in which wives have the definitive say in their husband's lives, which is ironic in the light of what lay behind last week's news that, far from retiring at the end of this season, as had previously been announced, Ferguson will remain at Old Trafford for another three years.
Though no great lover of the game, Ferguson's wife Cathy knew what it meant to him, and could still mean, and she perhaps didn't relish the prospect of having this great, brooding figure about the house with no outlet for his footballing energies.
No matter that he has achieved everything at United - the European Cup, seven Premier League titles, four FA Cups and one League Cup - or that he turned 60 at the end of 2001.
Cathy Ferguson could see that there was plenty left in him, and her intervention was crucial.
Why not carry on?
'As Cathy says, 'retire when you feel tired',' Ferguson said last week.
'And I feel strong, young, and fit.'
Family has always been important to Ferguson, and so, by extension, have the wider roots of his upbringing.
In his case, that was Govan, the Clydeside district on the south-western edge of Glasgow, where his father, Alex snr, was one of 100,000 or so men who built ships.
The sense of community in which Ferguson grew up was palpable, and as a young toolmaker in a Glasgow factory, he was soon involved in the union.
Full-time professional football did not come until he was 22, when he joined Dunfermline.
Spells at three other clubs followed.
He ran a pub in Glasgow before taking up his first managerial post, at St Mirren.
But it was as the manager of Aberdeen, from 1978 to 1986, that Ferguson made his mark, breaking the hold over Scottish football enjoyed by Rangers and Celtic, before moving to Manchester.
United was a club on which the past bore down.
With both the Munich air disaster of 1958 and the triumphs of the late 1960s, it had a unique legacy that it was struggling to live up to.
Since the retirement, in 1971, of the great Sir Matt Busby, a succession of managers had come and gone with little to show.
Would Ferguson do any better?
In the early years, it was touch and go whether he would survive.
But he bought some time by winning the FA Cup in 1990, and the elusive championship, the club's first for 26 years, finally arrived in 1993, in the inaugural Premier League season.
Since then, United have been almost unstoppable, as both a footballing and a commercial force.
Ferguson's achievement has been to withstand the pressure that goes with running the world's biggest club, and at the same time maintain the attacking tradition of the United sides of old.
Even United's detractors - the club is fiercely resented for its stranglehold on the English game - have to admit that, under Ferguson, domestic football has been raised to breathtaking new levels.
If such erudite Continentals as the England manager, Sven Goran Eriksson, and Arsne Wenger of Arsenal seem to represent a new studiousness in football, then Ferguson might be seen as a throwback to an age when the sort of men to whom he is heir - tough fellow-Scots such as Bill Shankly and Jock Stein - seethed with a passion for the game, and exuded a sometimes terrifying authority.
But you don't get to be the towering figure that Ferguson has become without the shrewdness, attention to detail and profound understanding of players' personalities which no powers of intimidation can make up for.
It's just that, unlike Eriksson and Wenger, Ferguson has been known to go into rages in which tables have been kicked and teacups thrown.
'There's a difference between old-style and old-fashioned,' says Alastair Campbell, the Downing Street press chief who has welcomed Ferguson as a staunch Labour supporter.
'Yes, he's old- style in that he's disciplined and he leads from the top.
But what people perhaps don't understand about Alex is that he has an incredibly acute intelligence.
He was one of the first to appreciate the importance of diet and training regimes for players.
At the same time he understands that United is a huge business.
I'd say all that puts him in the 'new manager' mould.'
Few managers form bonds with players as Ferguson does.
He has regarded the Welsh winger Ryan Giggs almost as a son ever since he broke into the team as a gifted 17-year-old.
In Roy Keane, United's irresistible Irish midfielder, Ferguson sees many of his own formidable qualities.
And with Eric Cantona, Peter Schmeichel and now the brilliant Dutch striker Ruud van Nistelrooy, Ferguson has found his faith in individual genius, with all its attendant pitfalls, spectacularly rewarded.
'Ferguson's probably the last manager who can use fear as a weapon to deal with players,' says the sportswriter Ken Jones.
'That's very difficult today because the players have so much money that they can just turn round and tell you where to go.'
When loyalty to players is not returned, Ferguson does not easily forgive.
Likewise when he feels press criticism is unjustified.
This season has seen a low point in his often turbulent relationship with reporters, with Ferguson cancelling press conferences and haranguing people when he does agree to turn up.
One of Ferguson's three sons, Jason, is also his agent, and the questions raised about this arrangement have seriously rankled with him.
Does Ferguson bear grudges?
'It's more that he always has to have the last word,' says someone close to him.
Of course he has mellowed over the years.
As the owner of some top-class horses, he derives huge pleasure from racing, often turning up on the gallops early in the morning after a match the night before.
There was a time when he felt undervalued at United.
What mattered to him about the big pay increase he secured a few years ago was not what it could buy him but what it said about his worth.
At 11m over three years, Ferguson's new contract makes him comfortably Britain's highest paid manager.
By the crazy standards of the footballing economy, it is money well spent.
It is just a week since The Independent on Sunday launched its asthma campaign, and already ministers have begun to take action.
Shrugging off their officials' instinct to try to kick the issue into the long grass, both Michael Meacher, the Environment minister, and Yvette Cooper, the public health minister, have immediately appreciated its importance.
Both have referred the scientific studies, revealed in this newspaper, that indicate that traffic fumes can cause asthma, to the official Committee on the Medical Effects of Air Pollution.
Tomorrow Mr Meacher will press his European ministerial colleagues to impose tougher, continent-wide controls on ozone, one of the main pollutants involved.
And Ms Cooper is to send new guidance to doctors on tackling the growing epidemic of the disease in children.
This is good as far as it goes, and the ministers - two of the best in a not overtalented Government - are to be commended for thinking out of the bureaucratic box.
But it is only a small start, and will take time to make a difference.
The pollution committee does not meet until June.
The new health guidelines will take two years to produce.
And Brussels notoriously moves at the pace of the snails so delectably served up in the city's restaurants.
The urgency of the crisis blighting the lives of one in every seven British children - and their families - requires a much faster response.
It also demands a more far-reaching one.
Our report today that two-thirds of British schools fail to help their asthmatic pupils, and that hundreds of thousands of sufferers are not properly informed about their condition, show how shamefully the Departments of Health and Education have neglected the epidemic.
Meanwhile the Department of Transport - at Mr Blair's specific backseat instruction - is driving policy in the wrong direction, towards more roads, more cars, more pollution and more asthma.
The Prime Minister and the Cabinet ministers in charge of the relevant departments must take on the issue themselves, and institute wholesale changes in policy - or take the blame for continuing child illness and death.
The difference between dial-up internet access and a high-speed service that is permanently on is akin to that between a horse-drawn cart and a car, which is why there is usually no going back for people who have graduated from one to the other.
So it would be churlish not to applaud the sharp price reduction announced yesterday by BT for its broadband service.
Assuming that the internet service providers pass on most of the cut, an average monthly subscription should come down to around 25 from the 40 or so it currently costs.
This is by any measure a swingeing cut, and makes broadband service in Britain as reasonably priced, if not cheaper, than its equivalent elsewhere in the world.
Whether it will be enough to persuade Britons to sign up for the broadband 'revolution' with as much alacrity as Americans or our fellow- Europeans, however, is another matter.
Germany already has 2 million subscribers, Britain fewer than 150,000.
The wonders of broadband are not at issue.
The technology allows the same line to be used for Internet access and telephone calls without either capability blocking the other.
It enables audio and video files to be transferred almost instantaneously.
Whole films can be delivered in minutes.
So why has Britain been so comparatively slow to adopt the new technology?
The widely-accepted thesis is that high prices have are the main deterrent.
Certainly, 40 a month is steep, and those cable companies that supply high-speed internet access have already attracted more subscribers than BT, with monthly payments set at 25.
But that is still double the price of many dial-up subscriptions.
And for home, rather than professional use, dial-up access is adequate.
The price cuts announced by BT mean that the theory of price as the chief obstacle to wider take-up will now be tested.
In fact, consumer resistance may lie elsewhere.
Even if the price of fast internet access is going down, the price of computers remains static.
And, as with mobile phones, there may be a limit to the range of services that people need or want from computers.
If they are to conquer the mass market, BT and the internet service providers must work harder to convince people that their most hi-tech services are not only competitively priced, but relevant to their lives.
