 Decisions on the next phase of the unwisely named war against terrorism are creeping closer, and most of the signs are that George Bush will get them wrong.
After he used his State of the Union address to identify the equally unwisely named axis of evil, the pressing question is: what is to be done about Iraq?
That something ought to be done about Iraq should not be in doubt.
The question is whether the US is going to act against its enemies in a way that creates even more enemies.
The next question is whether Britain is going to support whatever President Bush does regardless.
Saddam Hussein is still a threat to his neighbours and - potentially - to the US and its allies.
Even if the direct risk to the West from his proven wish to acquire weapons of mass destruction is small, the international community has a responsibility to act.
As Mr Blair accepted yesterday, there is not any evidence linking Iraq with the terrorist attacks of 11 September.
The country must be treated as a problem in its own right, and the issues remain much the same as they were before September last year.
The main one is that of sanctions.
To his credit, Mr Blair seems to realise that the present sanctions regime plays into Saddam's hands, allowing him to present the Iraqi people as victims of brutal US imperialism.
The British attempt at the United Nations last year to lift sanctions on food and most trade foundered on objections by the Russians to the definition of dual-use technology.
But it is right to pursue a collective approach, through the UN where possible.
The legitimacy of the aerial harassment of Iraq over the past few years has been weakened by the fact that it has been a purely US-British operation.
The next phase of the campaign against various forms of international terrorism ought to be conducted through diplomacy, renewing the global coalition - about which Mr Bush seems to have forgotten already - and working for treaties to restrain the proliferation of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons.
Instead, the President seems determined to pursue the short- sighted and negative policy of asserting US might, which will provoke resentment and breed more terrorism.
Mr Blair should not be seduced by the collaborationist argument that he will have greater influence over US policy if he expresses doubts in private.
He should say, loud and clear, that US policy is in danger of becoming counterproductive.
Trouble at bank.
An abandoned flip chart in the foyer of a Manchester branch of the Halifax reveals an innovative policy unusual even in the creative world of finance: they don't want customers.
Specifically, they don't want new businesses, businesses that deal in coinage: taxi-drivers, window-cleaners, market-traders and shopkeepers.
Napoleon would surely have approved.
The company might protest that this disinclination is limited to a number of branches, but we doubt it will wash. No business trades on image like a bank, and the Bank That Likes To Say No is splendidly irresistible.
Nevertheless, there may well be those who would prefer to bank with a company that refused its facilities to, say, spin doctors, prevaricating politicians, most Antipodean athletes (particularly New Zealand cricketers), anyone associated with the Department of Transport, interior designers on TV, Mike Tyson or Lady Victoria Hervey.
We, for our part, however, would like to stress and emphasise our intense delight in having you as a customer and look forward to renewing our most rewarding association tomorrow and for many years to come.
Thank you.
Taxi!
The British have never been especially good at providing for their old age, and the current mayhem in the pensions industry can only serve to make matters worse.
For much of the second half of the last century this congenital failure to plan ahead didn't matter so much because of two saving graces, now disappearing fast.
The first was the state pension; never generous, often inadequate but never means-tested and always available to all.
The second was the employer-funded final salary scheme for staff.
Most workers may not have even noticed that they were members of such schemes - to which they often made no contribution of their own - until that happy moment when they collected their gold watch and discovered that they would be on a guaranteed income of, say, two-thirds of their final salary for the rest of their days, irrespective of the vagaries of the stock market.
Now these two pillars are crumbling.
The worth of the state pension was eroded after the Thatcher government broke the link with average earnings.
The abolition of Serps (state earnings-related pension scheme) shortly after also weakened the state's provision.
Since Labour came to power in 1997 we have seen a move towards means-testing and the prospect of the basic pension withering on the vine.
More seriously, however, we now see the move from final salary schemes turn into a stampede.
The pensions watchdog Opra says 58,000 company schemes have been wound up and 30,000 of the remaining 110,000 at risk.
Prominent names such as Abbey National, Ernst & Young, Marks & Spencer, BT and J Sainsbury have declared their schemes closed to newcomers.
The supermarket group Iceland is even disbanding its scheme for current members, an extraordinary and morally questionable move.
This abandonment of final salary schemes is often said by employers to be because of changes in accounting rules (a red herring); because the schemes are getting expensive (true, but probably not unmanageably so), and because of the Chancellor, Gordon Brown's 'stealth tax' on pension funds.
On this last point, at least, the companies are right.
Mr Brown took 5bn a year out of the pensions system in the hope no one would notice - a typically Brownian attempt to pretend that public services can be paid for without pain.
Well, we now know who will pay for Mr Brown's tax; the young, the pensioners of tomorrow, few of them rich.
So without the state or our employers to look after us, what are we to do?
The answer to that was provided as long ago as 1988 when the then Chancellor, Nigel Lawson, introduced personal pensions.
They were meant to be a portable answer to the one big drawback with final salary schemes - that few of us remained with one employer for our working lives.
But the record has not been happy.
High charges, misleading claims and spectacular mis-selling have brought the industry into disrepute.
The Government's 'stakeholder' scheme was an attempt to remedy these problems and to encourage the lower paid to take out pensions, but it too has met with a lukewarm response.
The outlook, then, is bleak.
We are just such very poor savers, now with new excuses about the untrustworthy nature of the financial services industry.
The answer would seem to lie in the Government providing a much more ambitious version of the stakeholder framework that would make private pensions a safer investment, possibly linked to an element of compulsion.
And we need to recognise that there will always be those who will never earn enough to secure an adequate income through a private scheme.
For their sakes, the state pension cannot be allowed to wither away.
It seems that Norman Mailer has been uncharacteristically quiet about an event that occurred while he was in England on a chat tour.
Those interviewing the great man about the new mood of Americans were told that 'we need our manhood reaffirmed every six seconds', and this typically Maileresque soundbite has a curious resonance in the case of Jack Henry Abbott, a convicted murderer, who on 10 February, hung himself in his cell in a Utah penitentiary.
Abbott, it might just be remembered, was briefly famous in 1981 when he was the hero, then the villain, of a dramatic tale of the literary life.
A couple of years previously, after hearing that Norman Mailer was working on a novel based on the life of the executed murderer Gary Gilmore, Abbott had written a series of letters from Marion Federal Prison, Illinois, about his own miserable life.
From the age of 13 onwards, he had spent all his life, apart from a year on the run in 1971, in an institution.
Behind bars, he had descended into criminality and was currently serving a sentence for the fatal stabbing of a fellow-inmate.
The story that he told, of childhood cruelty and neglect, of woeful judicial prejudice, of survival through violence in the unseen hell of the American penal system, was probably not that unusual.
The way that he wrote about it, on the other hand, was.
'This guy isn't a murderer, he's an artist,' Mailer proclaimed, a trifle rashly under the circumstances.
He collected the letters, found a publisher for them and wrote an introduction for the book, which was entitled In the Belly of the Beast.
During the fuss surrounding publication, he and other writers and actors began to campaign for Abbott's release on parole.
The book came out in 1981 and, in the same year, so did its author.
Briefly, Abbott became a semi-celebrity in the literary scene.
His work was serialised in The New York Review of Books.
His ferocious, uncompromising prose was acclaimed.
The fact that he was walking free, attending book launches and being interviewed on Good Morning America was seen as triumph of writerly solidarity, a victory for literature over life.
Foreign rights in the book were sold worldwide, including to Britain where I, an editor at the time, was the proud publisher.
Then, six weeks after Abbott's release, something unfortunate happened.
While eating out at a Manhattan restaurant, the newly famous author became involved in an altercation with Richard Adan, a young waiter - an altercation that ended with Adan being stabbed to death.
The literary bandwagon came to a juddering halt.
Writers get excited when their quiet existence is enlivened by real events, but that was too real.
Mailer, Susan Sarandon and a few others attended Abbott's trial but, where there had been enthusiasm, there was now embarrassment.
Those of us who had published the book found ourselves quietly burying it.
After his excursion into the world of letters, Jack Henry Abbott resumed a life of obscurity.
The incident became accepted as a perfect little parable of liberal naivety, illustrating the dangers incurred by intellectuals who meddled in matters beyond their experience.
Opinions of Abbott's talent were quietly revised, with commentators inevitably quoting Humbert Humbert's line from Lolita: 'You can always count on a murderer for a fancy prose style.'
But perhaps, now that Abbott is dead, it will be seen that there was more to his story than the gullibility of literary types, that its real tragedy lies deep within American society.
Evil is the hot, easy subject over there at the moment.
Anyone who wants to look beyond the labels and the name-calling could do worse than to read the letters, sent from the belly of the beast, by Abbott.
I have, so far as I recall, kept nude photographs of only one author.
It happened during the 1990s when someone called Elizabeth Wurtzel was in England promoting her first book, Prozac Nation.
While being interviewed for a men's lifestyle magazine, Wurtzel decided to be more self-revealing than is traditional on these occasions.
When the photographer turned up, she stripped off for a series of unscheduled candid shots.
I found the results rather more interesting than most author profiles, and for several weeks kept them among my papers for occasional reference.
This confession, mildly embarrassing as it may be, is not in the same league as the kind of revelation on which Elizabeth (somehow I feel we are on first-name terms) has built her career.
In Prozac Nation, she recounted self-destructive adventures with cocaine, men and therapy during her teens and twenties which had led to an addiction to Prozac.
The book was written in over-heated but workmanlike prose and, had she been a bloke, or plain, or middle-aged, it would hardly have been publishable.
But Elizabeth was a babe.
She was prepared to dish intimate details about herself for journalists, give photographers a few literary skin shots.
The book became a bestseller and its author was described as 'the voice of generation.'
The ploy worked so well that Elizabeth appeared, cute as ever, on the cover of her next book Bitch: In Praise of Difficult Women.
She was topless, of course, but, as a small concession to seriousness, her nipples had been airbrushed out - 'Elizabeth doesn't have any nipples,' her publisher told a reporter when the publicity wagon began to roll again.
The content of Bitch was consistent with its presentation.
'Feminist writing has become dry.
I want to make it wet again,' Elizabeth announced.
After drugs and sex, where does a modern author go?
Back to more drugs and sex, of course.
This week, a new work from Elizabeth Wurtzel is in the bookshops, recounting her latest addiction, this time to Ritalin, the drug given to hyperactive children.
The thought, heartless but irresistible, occurs that professionally this was a neat career move, conforming perfectly to what a publisher wants from an author - the same formula as before, but slightly different.
What is interesting about Elizabeth's progress is precisely that her version of emotional porn, the hysterical yet glamorising exploitation of one's own darker secrets, is so sensationally successful.
To judge by a lengthy newspaper extract, the new book More, Now, Again is no better written than a promising adolescent's diary, yet its author has been reviewed in Time magazine and interviewed on CNN, while her book has been serialised in an allegedly serious British broadsheet.
A brief visit to one of the numerous websites devoted to her life and works reveals where her appeal lies.
A fan, Heather, writes that 'each large paragraph I devour gets me one leap closer to being me.'
Another message, headed 'A cry for help', is from Jeanette: - i don't know why i cry, can't sleep or concentrate but i'm getting tired.
Slowly i'm dying but i'm still trying at 14 to find happiness.'
This, surely, is a profitable new publishing genre in the making.
If Heather and Jeanette are pretty and ambitious, they too might one day turn their intimate secrets into literary gold.
If, as seems more likely, they are neither of these things, they will at least have the dubious reassurance that addiction is sexy, that confession, pushed far enough, could make you the voice of a generation.
Meanwhile, my former pin-up is offering her views on virtually anything.
In Manhattan during the attack on the World Trade Centre, she later revealed that she felt not the slightest emotional reaction.
'I thought, 'This is a really strange arts project.''
Those following her career may form the same conclusion.
