 If you believe their critics, our noble Lords have proved themselves supreme lords of spin.
Yesterday's report on cloning from the Lords select committee on stem-cell research gives the thumbs-up to a technique that, it says, offers 'real and great hope for a range of common diseases'.
Yet this was the only possible outcome because it was a 'put-up job', according to the anti-abortion lobby, which says the committee was packed with cloning's supporters.
The conclusion is indeed unsurprising, but for a different reason: it reflects the overwhelming weight of current medical and scientific opinion.
The cloning issue has been more thoroughly aired, examined and debated than any other in science and medicine in recent years.
Official reports have been published by the Human Genetics Advisory Commission, the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA) and the Chief Medical Officer.
All have backed cloning for stem cells (the body's master cells) from cloned embryos or cloned adult cells to produce new tissues for body repair.
The courts, too, have had their say.
The Pro-Life Alliance claimed in a case last year that there was nothing in British law to stop scientists from trying to create cloned human beings in the laboratory - because the only kind of reproduction controlled under the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act was that involving the union of sperm and egg, which is not required in cloning.
The judge agreed and an embarrassed Government was forced to rush through legislation expressly banning reproductive cloning.
Yesterday's decision by the House of Lords select committee adds little to the debate beyond endorsing the existing legislation.
By co-incidence, the HFEA was yesterday considering the first applications for licences to conduct embryonic stem-cell research for therapeutic purposes.
The coincidence is interesting and the consensus of opinion is clear - there is much to hope for and, now that obvious loopholes have been closed, little to fear from therapeutic cloning.
The UK's regulatory framework is among the most sophisticated in the world and has helped us to avoid the chaotic situation in the US, where the technique is banned in federally funded laboratories but permitted in the private sector.
Scientists should be given the go-ahead.
Enough talk - let the research begin.
The ceasefire in Sri Lanka is a ray of unexpected optimism.
The 19-year-long war between the Sri Lankan government and the Tamil Tiger guerillas has been parked in the file marked 'Insoluble Conflicts' for as long as most people can remember.
Some of the salient features of this civil war may have stuck in the mind.
The Tigers' reputation as one of the world's most ruthless and single- minded terrorist organisations.
Their use of cyanide pills to ensure their members were not taken alive.
Their early use of suicide bombing, including the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi, the Indian prime minister, in 1991.
The repeated failure of attempts to negotiate, punctuated by the murder and attempted murder of Sri Lankan politicians.
For the past few years, however, this has been a forgotten war.
Most of the world's media, this newspaper included, were caught out by the success of yesterday's ceasefire agreement brokered in Norway.
For all the inevitable cautions, this is a moment for rejoicing.
It is only a ceasefire, with the substantive negotiations yet to take place, but it is permanent and it includes provisions to protect civilians from the Tamil Tigers' extortion rackets and press gangs.
If it can be done in Sri Lanka, it can be done anywhere.
It is too much to hope that Ariel Sharon will recognise the implications of yesterday's announcement in Oslo for his slide into war with Palestinian guerillas.
He prefers to draw a false analogy with the response of the United States to a form of terrorism which, while superficially similar to that of the Tamil Tigers and Hamas, is in fact quite different.
The conflicts in Sri Lanka and Israel-Palestine are essentially between ethnic groups and over territory; the motivation of al-Qa'ida is apocalyptic religiosity.
As in Northern Ireland, as in Sri Lanka, as in the Middle East, the only way to achieve a lasting peace is by negotiation and compromise.
The experience of Northern Ireland, as well as the fate of the Middle East peace deal signed in Oslo in 1993, suggests that there still is a long way to go in Sri Lanka.
However, for now, the new Sri Lankan prime minister, Ranil Wickremasinghe, and the Norwegian government, which takes its responsibility for the cause of world peace remarkably seriously, deserve the warmest congratulations.
There was fiction by H E Bates and poetry by Cesare Pavese.
Renatus Hartogs MD PhD discussed the psychology of hoarding.
Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor talked about their stormy marriage.
Derek Malcolm reviewed a new film called A Clockwork Orange.
Eugene Schoenfeld MD revealed that the principal cause of male insecurity was 'the fear that their penises are not large enough'.
There was a special offer of a bikini for 2.90, and a double-page advert declared that Crimplene was the fabric to capture the mood of spring.
From its very first issue, the March 1972 issue, which went on sale 30 years ago this month, Cosmopolitan confounded expectations.
It mixed high art and popular culture, and covered diverse subjects - from kissing to getting bank loans if you were a single woman - that had not previously been found within the same covers.
The launch editor, Joyce Hopkirk, appealed directly to readers - 'You are that Cosmopolitan girl, aren't you?'
- and explained who her target audience was.
'You're very interested in men, naturally, but think too much of yourself to live your life entirely through him.
That means you're going to make the most of yourself - your body, your face, your clothes, your hair, your job and your mind.'
If brains came last on Hopkirk's list, her readers did not seem to care.
The first issue sold out its print run of 350,000 copies by lunchtime; the second was an even bigger success, selling 450,000.
Cosmo, as its readers immediately began to call it, had enjoyed one of the most successful launches in magazine history.
It became synonymous with the freedom women were enjoying, or trying to enjoy, as a consequence of the sexual revolution.
I was one of those original readers.
I loved Cosmo, devouring it with the same enthusiasm I felt for The Female Eunuch, which had been published only two years earlier.
I was a teenage reader of Cicero and Jackie, T S Eliot and Georgette Heyer, so I wasn't at all discomfited to find Nobel-prize winning novelists and male pin-ups in the same magazine.
(Hopkirk engagingly introduced a short story by Alberto Moravia by observing that 'our fiction is a bit tough.
But, then, isn't life?')
The second issue introduced pictures of naked men, under the not-quite-accurate coverline: 'Our first male pin-up reveals all'.
Paul du Feu, who had been married to Germaine Greer, was photographed lounging on the floor, his right leg modestly raised to conceal his genitals.
By the late 1970s, when I was working on a local paper in the north of England and pining for London, I used to hang around newsagents, waiting for the next issue to come in.
'You're too cosmopolitan for us,' a colleague once observed, sadly, and I took it as the most enormous compliment.
Some of my friends can still recall individual articles from that period.
'How many magazines can you say that about?'
one of them wondered last week when we were reminiscing about the early days of Cosmo.
It wasn't the advice on sex she remembered, but articles on finance and property, which inspired her to do her own conveyancing when she bought her first house.
I remember the thrill of acquiring my first bottle of 'real' perfume, a tiny phial of Diorella, through one of its special offers.
Several years later, I plucked up courage to leave my then boyfriend, with whom I had lived since leaving university, after reading an article in Cosmo on breaking up.
There were pioneering features on abortion, which had been legalised in this country five years before the magazine appeared on newsagents' shelves; the third issue of Cosmo explained why the new law wasn't working.
Hopkirk took the extraordinary step of flagging it up on the cover, naming four famous women who had had terminations.
It is this no-holds-barred approach to sex and its consequences that many people still associate with the original Cosmo.
Early issues offered '23 Ways To Kiss A Man So That He's Yours For Life (or Long Enough)' and 'Things To Say In Bed'.
Ten years later, when Hopkirk had been succeeded as editor by Deidre McSharry, the magazine was maintaining its image with raunchy coverlines.
But it also had Jill Tweedie on 'Women, money and the freedom to love', confirming the magazine's commitment both to good writing and the goal of financial independence for its readers.
The January 1982 issue offered to 'take the fear out of fellatio', in which the splendidly named Avodah K Offit MD assured readers that oral sex 'requires only the most fundamental intelligence to comprehend or accomplish'.
It may not have sounded much fun, but she told them exactly how to do it.
These days, the sexual boundaries have been pushed much further: the February 2002 edition of the magazine issue contains bondage tips for beginners - tie your legs with stockings not rope, for example - and sex diaries written by Cosmo readers.
Yet the original Cosmo message was never quite as libertarian as it now seems.
It flirted with the Establishment, so that Jilly Cooper's 1972 guide to men she imagined would make good lovers included this extraordinary statement: 'On the one hand, I fancy Robert Maxwell because he seems to be so nasty, on the other I adore Geoffrey Johnson-Smith because he's so nice - and think of the kudos of being the Under-Secretary of State for Defence'.
It's hard to imagine today's twentysomething Cosmo readers being able to name a junior defence minister in Tony Blair's government, let alone having sexual fantasies about him.
Hopkirk herself, in what would now be called her mission statement, revealed a divorce and her share of 'emotional hang-ups'.
Cosmo girls were, she thought, prone to 'aggravations like jealousy, envy, and a feeling of just not being up to it that hits us all too often'.
In that sense, the magazine was not so much moulding its readers as identifying with them, and sending out mixed messages as a result.
The first issue included the confessions of a 'sleep-around girl', and denied that there was anything glamorous about promiscuity.
'If you chip away at the faade, you usually find a miserable victim of shattered emotions', it warned, 'frantically seeking shreds of affection from man after man'.
The second characterised Paul du Feu as Mellors to Greer's Lady Chatterley, describing him as an easy-going labourer who is 'totally disinterested [sic] in Women's Lib or any other political cause'.
Another sign that the magazine was not totally at ease with sex was its reliance on American sexologists.
You don't need to be medically qualified to explain the female orgasm or how to do fellatio, but Cosmo's contributors tended to have strings of letters after their names, and jobs at American universities.
This may have reflected the fact that Cosmo was originally an American magazine, founded by the formidable Helen Gurley Brown, author of Sex and the Single Girl.
But it also suggests a need to lend professional respectability to what would otherwise have remained taboo subjects.
It may also have reflected the confusion many of its readers were feeling.
While the Sixties is fixed in everyone's mind as a revolutionary decade, some of its most long-reaching effects only made themselves felt later.
This is particularly true of feminism, which got going in the Seventies and was in many ways a reaction to the maleness of the sexual revolution.
Cosmo arrived at a moment when the word 'girl' was already going out of fashion, soon to be used only by male chauvinists or with irony by women themselves; the magazine was both ahead and behind the times, and had a tendency to preach to its readers.
But it treated them as people, with the same breadth of interests and ambitions as men.
It assumed they could cope with highbrow fiction, and pages of type without the endless cross-heads, photographs and pull-out quotes that are a feature of today's magazines.
It quickly lost its ambivalence about feminism, telling readers about the Polish trade union movement Solidarity, and bemoaning its neglect of women.
(The author of a 1982 piece about Solidarity, Lynne Jones, was billed as 'a doctor and a feminist'.)
I wrote for it occasionally myself, on subjects as varied as Ian McEwan's fiction and the return of the corset as a fashion item.
I don't remember precisely when I stopped buying it, but there was a time in the Eighties when I began to feel that Cosmo contained the same articles as all the other women's magazines.
It had lost its capacity to surprise, and there were new titles with a different agenda, like Marie Claire, that I liked better.
What seems extraordinary, in retrospect, is how long it remained faithful to the original concept.
By the beginning of the 1990s, adverts for cosmetic surgery had begun to appear and the layout was changing to look like other magazines.
These days, it is more obviously youth-oriented, and displays the same obsession with bubble-gum celebrities - 'Backstage with Britney' - as its competitors.
It is a successful formula, currently selling 450,000 copies, but something has inevitably been lost.
Today's Cosmo is coarser and less critical, confessional rather than analytical, and nervous about challenging preconceptions.
Three-quarters of the magazine's readers would like cosmetic surgery, according to the latest issue, which offers photos of readers who have gone under the knife: 'They're pleased with the results - you be the judge'.
Of course, Hopkirk's Cosmopolitan was a product of its time, and couldn't stay the same.
The demise of Nova, a stylish Sixties title that was recently revived then closed, demonstrates how the women's magazine market has changed.
But what is so striking about the original Cosmo, 30 years on, is how innovative and intelligent it was.
It encouraged its readers to be brave, to experiment in every area of their lives, and sympathised with their dilemmas.
It may have addressed its readers as girls, but it was definitely a magazine for grown-ups.
I thought I'd reached paradise: an empty beach, half an hour from the nearest petrol station and small shop, car-free dirt roads and locally grown fruit and vegetables.
A sign said 'Killing hens and perching pullets'.
Perhaps you have to kill your free-range dinner yourself.
I didn't bother to find out.
At the store, my big mistake was to buy the local newspaper, which informed me that Michael Barrymore arrives in New Zealand any day now and plans to visit a local drink and drug-abuse centre.
New Zealand is a nuclear-free zone.
And they've disbanded their Air Force.
Is it too much to ask that they introduce a rigorous new form of vetting at immigration?
Anyone who's sold their story to a British tabloid should be refused entry.
Then the country would really be pollutant-free.
