 The case of Ms Susan Wallace, who went down to her local with Igwig the iguana, has lessons for us all that go well beyond the blindingly obvious 'do not take your iguana to the pub'.
Ms Wallace, you may recall, has just ended up with a conviction for assault and unnecessary suffering - and not to the iguana.
Lesson one is that even half a pint of lager - the amount Ms Wallace was reported to have drunk - has peculiar effects when combined with the presence of a rather large lizard sprawled across your back.
Lesson two, which is not altogether discouraging, is that men in pubs have a problem with rather large lizards sprawled across ladies' backs, perceiving them as a threat.
Precisely what the men found so threatening about the lizard was not actually disclosed in court.
Was it his claws, his tongue, his colour, his reptilian mien, the mysterious smile on his face, or perhaps his female companion?
Which brings us to lesson three.
When out alone in the evening, you can leave the mace, the pepper spray and the rape alarm safely at home.
Just don't forget the iguana - and steer clear of pubs.
Poor David Warner.
One of the finest actors of his generation, he returned to the West End last week after an absence of three decades induced by stage fright.
His return is to be short-lived; after a torrent of terrible reviews, and subsequent tiny audiences, the producers pulled the plug on A Feast of Snails, in which he was performing.
Mr Warner's experience is the downside of some very good news.
It has always been said that no one lost money underestimating the lowest common denominator of the public's appetite.
That is no doubt still true, but after years in which the West End was dominated by musicals or low-brow revues, London is enjoying a revival of the serious play.
Even better, most of them are new.
Audiences are knocking each other over to book tickets for the likes of Humble Boy, The Lieutenant of Inishmore and Gagarin Way.
Producers used to say there was no point in experimenting with new work because there was no audience for it in commercial theatre.
That is now clearly wrong.
But for every success, there will always be failures.
Mr Warner was unfortunate to be in one of them.
Better luck next time, Mr Warner.
One of the joys of modern Olympic Games is the discovery that yet another unlikely activity - impossible to judge objectively, uninteresting to watch or mechanised to the point of absurdity - is in fact an official medal-entitling sport.
To synchronised swimming and ice-dancing we now add the freestyle mle for teenagers in search of a drink, the rubber-bullet shooting at moving targets, and, of course, competitive pharmacology, in which participants try to establish if given substances are covered by the ban on EPO.
Little wonder the television audience - in this country in any case - has been so attracted to the snooker-like qualities of the peaceful, wholesome sport of brushing ice backwards with a broom.
No drugs or violence there, but it is a little disillusioning to discover that the Scottish gold medallists who captured hearts and headlines were helped in their sweeping and stone-sliding technique by computer analysis at the Centre for Materials Science and Engineering at the University of Edinburgh.
It seems the tradition of sporting amateurism is safer in the hands of the youngsters trying to storm the Budweiser tent.
The rules of war, which America's war crimes envoy yesterday declared obsolete, have evolved over a century and a half in which the nature of warfare has moved from pitched battles to the horrors of international terrorism.
The first guidelines were drawn up in 1864 and revised over the years.
The conventions remain the most important international instruments for defending human dignity in war.
They provide the legal foundation for the work of the Red Cross and have been signed by almost 200 countries.
These are the rules that President George Bush's envoy, Pierre-Richard Prosper, now suggests are out of date, as the US administration tries to deal with the aftermath of the international outrage which followed its refusal to allow Taliban and al-Qa'ida detainees the convention's protection at Guantanamo Bay.
In the summer of 1859, Henri Dunant, a sometime diarist and sometime merchant, was travelling in northern Italy when he arrived in the small village of Castiglione delta Pieve.
Dunant could not have arrived at a more inauspicious time.
That day, 24 June, a battle was raging around Castiglione in what would be a decisive episode in the struggle for Italian unification.
The French, allied to the Sardinians and with Emperor Napoleon III at their head, faced the Austrian troops, 300,000 men in all, engaged in a bitter and unrelenting battle.
By the end of the day, when the Austrians abandoned their positions, more than 6,000 men would be dead and 40,000 wounded in what was known as the Battle of Solferino.
Though initially an unintentional observer, Dunant played an important role that day, chronicling the battle and the efforts afterwards by local people to treat the dying and wounded regardless of their allegiance.
Working from the church of Castiglione, the chiesa maggiore, Dunant helped local woman as they did what they could with only the most basic of materials.
The effect of this young man from a privileged background was so great that it led him to organise an international convention that eventually developed into guidelines for all countries involved in combat.
In A Memory of Solferino, published in 1862, Dunant wrote: 'I was a mere tourist with no part whatever in this great conflict but it was my rare privilege, through an unusual train of circumstances, to witness the moving scenes that I have resolved to describe.
'Here is a hand- to-hand struggle in all its horror and frightfulness, Austrians and allies trampling each other underfoot, killing one another on piles of bleeding corpses, felling their enemies with their rifle-butts, crushing skulls, ripping bellies open with sabre and bayonet.
'No quarter is given; it is a sheer butchery; a struggle between savage beasts, maddened with blood and fury.
Even the wounded fight to the last gasp.
When they have no weapon left, they seize their enemies by the throat and tear them with their teeth.'
Dunant wrote of the efforts to help the wounded: 'Every family was bent on having French wounded under its roof, and no effort was spared to console the men for finding themselves far from their country, their families and their friends.
The best doctors gave them their care, in private houses as well as in hospitals.'
Dunant helped form the International Committee for Relief to the Wounded, which later became the International Committee of the Red Cross.
In response to an invitation from the International Committee, representatives from 16 countries and four philanthropic institutions gathered in Geneva and agreed on a basic code to ensure the protection of medical services on the battlefield.
This became known as the Geneva Convention for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded in Armies in the Field.
It contained 10 articles.
Later conferences extended the basic law to other categories of victims, such as prisoners of war.
In 1899, in The Hague, a second convention was signed, extending the principles to warfare at sea.
In 1907 and again in 1929, there were further extensions.
In the aftermath of the Second World War, another meeting in 1949 dealt with civilians and prisoners of war.
These last two conventions are perhaps the most important.
Conventions III and IV offer wide-ranging protection for civilians and enemy forces taken prisoner.
These can include 'members of militia or volunteer corps', they say.
They add: 'Persons taking no part in the hostilities shall in all circumstances be treated humanely.
The conventions say that 'passing of sentences without previous judgment from a regularly constituted court is prohibited' and that the 'wounded and the sick shall be cared for'.
They add: 'PoWs shall enjoy complete latitude in the exercise of their religious duties.'
Henri Dunant could not have known that his actions more than 140 years ago would have resulted in such a legacy.
It is this legacy that Mr Bush's representative, Mr Prosper, is trying to change.
A tempting inference could be drawn from recent events: Tony Blair and his advisers may be losing their touch.
By no means deficient in intellect, they have been supremely good at manipulation, and their cunning has never been inhibited by addiction to the truth.
In the past, however, they have known when to lie: what they could get away with.
But their judgement now seems to have deserted them.
In his handling of the Mittal affair, Mr Blair has made two elementary mistakes.
He forgot that the cover-up can be more damaging than the original offence.
He also forgot that politicians should avoid situations in which their conduct can only have two explanations: that they are fools, or knaves.
Yet this is where Mr Blair now finds himself.
When the Mittal story broke, Mr Blair and Alastair Campbell were instantly aware of its potential for embarrassment.
Yet they have often spun their way out of worse messes, and this time they had luck on their side.
The story would be competing for coverage with Princess Margaret's funeral.
Not only that; they had a plausible defence.
'Romania is trying to modernise its economy,' Mr Blair could have claimed, 'so it is desirable to bring in foreign expertise and capital to privatise and modernise an out-dated steel industry.
Britain may not have had a direct interest, but it is clearly to Britain's advantage that everything should be done to bring stability and economic progress to Eastern Europe.
Mr Blair might have gone on: 'As for Mr Mittal, he may not be a British subject, but he is a friend of this country.
He is also a highly successful entrepreneur.
If the Government helps him to help the Rumanians, he might decide to invest more in the UK.
The Tories seem to be saying that we should not do business with Mr Mittal.
Is this because they are racist, or because they hate successful businessmen?
They have questioned Mr Mittal's donations to the Labour Party, but he did so because he believes in a British Government that believes in business.
To suggest that he was trying to buy favours is beneath contempt.'
This would not have been a perfect defence.
The juxtaposition between electoral assistance and ambassadorial assistance would still have left a smell of drains, intensified by Peter Mandelson's success in bringing the Hindujas back to the political agenda.
(He will receive no gratitude for that from No 10).
But the Blair Government could have provided itself with a plausible story, which would also have made it easier to explain the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development's decision to subsidise Mr Mittal.
The Government could then have argued that the EBRD shared its assessment.
Now, however, the news that the British Ambassador's helpful letter, was reinforced by a 6m douceur, will appear like the next installment in a tale of corruption.
During his rise to great wealth, Mr Mittal must have brought off many financial coups.
But did he ever manage to achieve such a rapid 48-fold increase in the value of an investment as when he gave 125,000 to the Labour Party, and received 6m from the British taxpayer?
The fault does not lie with Mr Mittal.
He is just a hopeful, hustling billionaire.
It lies with Mr Blair's claims that his Mittal steel was a British company.
Unless the PM was a fool, he must have known that this claim was unsustainable.
Mr Blair is not a fool; that defence is not open to him.
When he insisted that Mittal is a British company, he must have known that he was lying.
So what led him not only to lie, but to lie in such a feeble and self-destructive fashion?
A simple explanation would be a combination of arrogance and navet.
Power has gone to Mr Blair's head.
A combination of apparently unlimited electoral puissance and an underlying lack of both intellectual self-confidence and political principle has destabilised him.
Mr Blair has never been much good at explaining his beliefs; he no long sees why he should even have to try.
Recently, as was demonstrated over the 'wreckers' speech on public services, his response to the rough probing and disrespect which are inescapable in democratic politics was a loss of temper.
He no longer accepts the requirement to submit himself to any questioning whatsoever.
Yet once a premier ceases to respect his questioners, he also ceases to respect his voters.
The one set of persons to whom Mr Blair is, if anything, more respectful is the rich.
Few prime ministers have ever taken office understanding so little of the British governmental process as Mr Blair did, or thinking less of it.
He knew that a lot was wrong with the public sector, but he did not know how to put that right.
But he had learnt an important lesson from the Thatcher years, when British business, so long depressed and disordered, had sprung ahead and recovered its status in world markets.
From the outset, he was convinced that the answer to any problem he encountered in government was to bring in a businessman to solve it for him.
That is a simplistic view.
Not all parts of the public service are susceptible to the business approach.
Businessmen are there to make a profit, yet governments have to provide services to people from whom no profit could ever be expected.
The ethos of business is commercial.
To paraphrase Calvin Coolidge, the business of business is business.
Yet the activities of government cannot all be reduced to commercial imperatives.
There is an inescapable dimension of public service, and of politics.
But as Mr Blair demonstrated over his handling of the Rose Addis case, he does not believe that the public is entitled to complain about the services it receives.
He is also impatient about politics.
If he ever did, he no longer believes that the answer to political questions lies in the rough and tumble of debate.
He believes that he is entitled to call in the disinterested expertise of businessmen, and that when he has done so, all debate should cease.
This will not work.
Most voters understand business better than Mr Blair does.
Above all, they understand that businessmen have business interests.
The voters have no objections to this, as long as those businessmen do not try to promote their interests by exercising undue influence over government.
But it will be hard for Mr Blair to persuade the voters that his business friends do not have access to undue influence.
Few public reputations now stand lower than Neil Hamilton's.
Yet when Mr Hamilton became a minister, he wrote to Mohammed Fayed and told him that he could no longer involve himself with any aspect of Mr Fayed's affairs.
As a result, Mr Fayed turned on him and destroyed him.
If Mr Hamilton had written letters on Mr Fayed's behalf similar to the one Tony Blair wrote on Mr Mittal's behalf, Mr Hamilton would not now be a bankrupt and would still be a Member of Parliament.
The one inescapable conclusion is that as a government minister, Neil Hamilton was more honourable than Tony Blair is.
