 As the first phase of the official inquiry into the death of Victoria Climbie drew to a close yesterday, this is perhaps a good moment to recall the words of Lord Laming, the chairman of the inquiry, on the opening of the proceedings some months ago.
At that time he said that he hoped that the Climbie case would mark a 'turning point' and that the lessons of the case would result in proper protection for vulnerable and abused children in Britain.
Lord Laming is certainly right to hope for such an outcome, but the long list of previous high- profile child-abuse cases suggests otherwise.
Victoria Climbie's name joins those of Kimberley Carlile, Jasmine Beckford, Maria Colwell, Shirley Woodcock and many others, all of which had a similar shocking impact on the public and the authorities but, sadly, seemed to have no lasting effect.
It is obviously unrealistic to expect that we will never again see a case like that of Victoria Climbie; but it is not too much to ask that the same mistakes be not made time and again by the authorities and voluntary agencies that work in the field.
In particular, the Government needs to take urgent action to deal with the standards of some local authorities' social services departments.
It bears repeating that the abuse of Victoria Climbie - amounting to the torture and, indeed, the murder of the eight-year-old - took place not in some quasi-prison or care home but 'in the community'.
Her injuries were inflicted over a period of many months and were seen by hospital staff and by social workers.
Carole Baptiste, the Haringey social worker whose job it was to oversee the Climbie case, was apparently developing a 'serious psychotic mental illness' at the time.
Documents have been lost.
However, time and again, and far too often, we find with a sense of depressing inevitability that social workers have in some way been found wanting in the discharge of their vital duties.
Often it is also the case that the resources are not there to employ sufficient social workers or to attract the best into the field.
Sometimes monies intended for the care of the most vulnerable are diverted by councils.
Although it is right that ministers should spend so much of their time and effort on setting targets and rating performance in our schools and hospitals, there has long been the feeling that social services have been very much a 'Cinderella' public service.
Nor should we be afraid to ask tough questions about race; did the idea that black cultural norms must always be respected contribute to Victoria's neglect?
If the Climbie case (and all those that preceded it) is about anything, it is about the need for a thorough overhaul of the funding and staffing of social services departments in every local authority in the country.
This has to be undertaken by central government because, as the cynical and obstructive attitude of Haringey Council demonstrates, it seems beyond many town halls to accept responsibility for their failings.
At the same time, the role of the NSPCC in this case also leaves something to be desired and should act as a stark warning to all those who feel that a greater role for the voluntary sector, welcome as it may often be, is some sort of guarantee of higher standards of care.
Victoria Climbie was referred to a NSPCC family centre in August 1999.
The inquiry heard that no effort was made to see the child because staff were preoccupied with organising a party.
So let us hope that the Climbie case will mark a turning point for the lamentable standards that seem to prevail in social services.
This will need pressure from Whitehall, and so far there is little sign of it being applied.
Have I ever mentioned that I come from woodman stock?
Not woodman in the sense of wild man from the primeval undergrowth, or hunter of game in the Queen's forests, but woodman as in sensualist of the plank.
My father was one of those men who went nowhere without a saw in his hand, a sheet of sandpaper in his pocket and nails in his mouth.
A Jew is, by rhyming slang, a four-by-two, but those measurements cut no ice in our house.
Two-by-one, that was my father's first love; and for the perfect length of two-by-one - dead straight when you pointed it at the South Pole and cast your eye along its length, so smooth you could sleep entwined around it - he would have swapped his offspring.
Fortunately he never found what he was looking for.
Perhaps he knew he never dared.
The search for it informed his life, though, making him sad and introspective in the end, a haunter of timber merchants and junk yards, someone who went into bookshops only to examine the shelves and who fell into a brown study when we visited relatives who, through poverty or design, lived in uncarpeted rooms.
While the rest of us took tea and talked, he would sit with his head between his knees, sizing up the floorboards and cutting them into the ideal dimensions in his imagination.
A good job we weren't still living in the forests of Podolia, in log cabins.
Unless that was exactly what he was missing.
Though no chip off the old block myself - all I ever made after five years of learning woodwork at school was a splint to hold the finger I'd broken while trying to plane a lid for someone else's pencil box - I am still fondly reminded of these my timbery beginnings by the newspaper photographs of those thousands of tons of Swedish pine washed up on the Cornish coast last week: all the firewood in hell, enough matchwood to keep the devil's furnaces aflame for ever.
If ever you wondered what conceptual artists were striving for, here, once and for all, it is, constructed with sufficient absence of construction to make every one of them, from the most plainly functional to the most superfluously grandiose - from Carl Andr the bricklayer to old Clingwrap Christo himself - eat their own hearts.
Behold every art clich of the last 100 years: the objet trouv with a vengeance, the ordinary become amazing, scale changing meaning, the natural become unnatural, space and volume redefined, litter striving to be beauteous, beauty striving to be litter, the gallery rendered otiose, randomness made magisterial, materials mocking their origin (for here is a towering forest of that which came from forests), and best of all, the artist nowhere to be seen.
God the great conceptualist.
Charles Saatchi must be looking to sign Him up even as we speak, and Serota wondering how to squeeze Him on to the shortlist for this year's Turner.
Can God giggle like a ninny when they offer Him the cheque?
God is all powerful.
He can do anything.
Did He not make Andy Warhol, employing none of the elements we normally associate with life?
I would like to think that the Cornish have been out in their thousands, thronging the shoreline to marvel at this glorious sight - art rescued from the wreck of commerce, destruction itself destroyed.
But by all accounts they have just been driving to the sea and filling the boots of their cars with offcuts.
Perhaps they marvelled first and scavenged later.
'Wrecking' they call this, down there.
I lived among the Cornish once and recall more than one occasion when the word went around that there were valuables being washed in on the tide.
Out came the torches and the Wellington boots and off we'd all troop, prepared to climb down ropes thousands of feet into the raging blackness, disturbing the homes of screaming sea birds, swaying in the gale, howling, falling, breaking limbs, half drowning sometimes, in order to lay our hands on some punctured sack of sodden tea, or box of Christmas decorations fabricated in Taiwan and now smashed into a thousand pieces.
Then up the cliffs we'd haul ourselves again, clasping our treasures to our chests - a shining example of the truism that it is not the winning that matters, but the taking part.
And all the following day the village would be alive with tales of our adventures.
Such things we'd found down there!
Gold and silver.
Watches cut from dead men's wrists.
Rings pulled from the whitened fingers of society women, still fragrant but destined to cruise the oceans of the world no more.
A tiara, no less, seen floating in a rockpool, at first mistaken for a jellyfish.
Wrecking is a form of social vengefulness, you see.
A way of seeing to it that what goes around, comes around.
Imperial Caesar dead and turned to clay, stopping a hole to keep the wind away.
A rafter meant for a palace, now a kitchen shelf in Portwrinkle.
Though he was no climber, I can picture my father down there on the beach, in seventh heaven, a retractable measure in his hand, a pencil in his ear, perhaps sawing a plank over one knee, something he tried to teach me to do once, until my mother, hearing the saw cutting through cartilage, came running out and stopped him.
He didn't mean me to have no legs.
He just wanted me to love wood, as he did.
What a disappointment I was to him.
But it could have been worse.
He could have had Andy Warhol for a son.
So the politicians, especially Tessa Jowell, the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, are worried that the BBC is considering 'dumbing down' its coverage of politics.
But few - apart from political junkies such as me - would necessarily blame Greg Dyke, the director general, for looking at new ways of making politics less boring to viewers.
The fact is that apathy, reflected at the low turnout in elections, is also mirrored in the turn-off that politics has become for many viewers and listeners.
Before the politicians get too high and mighty they should momentarily spare a thought for Mr Dyke as he wonders why so few 'normal' people - especially the young - actually watch his excellent programmes on politics.
Don't get me wrong, I am not against the desire to maintain the interest of the viewer in politics, and I think that any attempt to reduce the output of political coverage would be a mistake.
In fact, more than that, I also have a financial interest to declare.
I am privileged to take part in many political programmes broadcast by the corporation and I would suffer, financially, as a consequence.
I find it ironic, however, that I have the opportunity of participating far more these days on radio and television than I ever did as an MP.
Maybe that should tell us something.
It could be that, tied to a whip, a pager and a political script, I had nothing useful to say.
Now that I have to use my brain instead of my pager, perhaps I might appear more interesting.
At present, the BBC provides extensive coverage of politics and the proceedings of the House of Commons.
I do not think there has ever been a time when there has been so much coverage.
Just consider an average Sunday.
On television it starts with Breakfast with Frost, and this is followed at lunchtime by On the Record.
Meanwhile, Radio 4 provides Broadcasting House in the morning and The Westminster Hour in the evening.
Meanwhile, Radio 5 Live offers us Sunday Service.
That adds up to five hours of in-depth and extensive political coverage - excluding Radio 4's lunchtime news show, The World This Weekend.
For a day on which many are seeking a rest from political debate I reckon, if anything, the BBC is actually going well beyond its call of public duty.
During the week, in addition to the regular news and current affairs programmes such as Newsnight and Today, there are other round-ups of events in Parliament.
Dispatch Box, on BBC 2, was added to the political stable of the corporation four years ago and provides a 30-minute nightly magazine round-up and also includes robust live studio discussion.
Admittedly, this programme is for insomniacs because it goes out after midnight - but then, since Parliament does not adjourn until 10.30pm, it is hardly possible to put out such a programme much earlier.
And then there are the two, hour-long, Westminster Live programmes put out on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, which cover Question Time in the Commons and much more.
Add Radio 4's Yesterday in Parliament and Today in Parliament plus Saturday's Week in Westminster, and this all points to a pretty impressive coverage for what is, in large measure, just a minority pursuit.
If anything, it can be argued, with some justification, that the BBC's output has actually increased in recent years.
So no politician can claim that there has been any dumbing-down yet.
However, Greg Dyke has a right to ask whether his viewers are actually watching or listening to any of these programmes.
There are some (I am one) that say that he has a duty to provide programmes on political affairs regardless of how many are tuning in.
But he, in turn, is entitled to ask why so few licence-payers are thanking him for such coverage.
Could it be because it is the politicians themselves, rather than the broadcasters, who are dumbing down?
Parliament has only itself to blame if its proceedings are such a turn-off.
And if some of the programmes go out at an inconvenient time, could this not be because of the inconvenient hours that the Commons currently sits?
The trouble is that politicians rarely watch or listen to television or radio and maybe are simply unaware of just how unappetising they appear to the rest of us.
One can hardly blame the BBC for wanting to get away from simply covering the proceedings of a largely empty Commons chamber where there are often only a dozen or so MPs present.
The only significant thing that registers in the minds of some viewers is the backcloth of empty green benches.
Perhaps if MPs attended the debates in larger numbers, there might be more of an incentive to want to watch.
Ironically, it has been the provision of the live TV 'feed' to MPs in their swanky offices that has been one of the reasons for the decline in attendance.
Then there are the cringe-making Labour stooges who ask their idiotic scripted questions along the lines of: 'Is the Prime Minister aware that he is marvellous?'
This week the Speaker ruled that the Leader of the Opposition could not ask the Prime Minister questions about the Labour Party and its funding by trade unions - implying that Mr Blair, as Prime Minister, was not responsible for the Labour Party.
This is bizarre.
Presumably, this strict interpretation means that Parliament cannot now even question ministers on the leaked Labour Party health policy document that suggests that the NHS might, in future, be less than free at point of use.
The attempts to stifle open debate in the Commons mean that, for the rest of us, the impression is reinforced that Parliament is a place where questions in debates simply go unanswered.
And when, anyway, so many of the broadcasters are then confronted with the refusal of ministers to appear on programmes, who can blame Mr Dyke for wondering if the manner of political coverage should not be reviewed?
How many times do we hear interviewers saying 'We invited a minister to appear but none were available'?
In such circumstances it is the politicians' evasions that are responsible for the dumbing-down of their trade.
It would be sad if politics were to lose the attention of the BBC, but it is up to the politicians, not Mr Dyke, to make their case.
