 As ever, market trends are against the way of life of a marginalised community.
The evidence of the annual Caravan Show, which opened in Birmingham yesterday, is that the traditional caravan, the wheeled kitchenette that you attach to the back of a car, is being ousted - much in the manner of red squirrels by grey - by the all-in-one mobile home.
Caravanners have been a despised minority for too long.
They may not have known quite how much they were despised by the drivers of unencumbered vehicles travelling behind their swaying boxes on a motorway, but they sensed that they were discriminated against by the mainstream.
And they knew that they were under-represented in Parliament, with only one of their number, Margaret Beckett, in the Cabinet.
Mobile homes, meanwhile, have shaken off their image as overgrown camper vans and become fashionable, with the help of air-conditioning, built-in dishwashers and all mod cons.
Surely, caravan-owners should react by going in the opposite direction, back to the simpler holiday life that is true to their origins.
They could invent a more basic and portable form of accommodation.
And call it a tent.
Noam Chomsky, one of America's leading philosophers and an icon of the radical left, took centre stage in an Istanbul court yesterday when a judge threw out charges against the Turkish publisher of his book criticising treatment of the Kurdish minority.
Bespectacled and mild-mannered, Mr Chomsky cut an unlikely figure in the crowded courtroom where 'crimes against the state' are tried.
The 72-year-old linguistics professor watched as prosecutors abandoned earlier claims and accepted the defence argument that Fatih Tas, of Aram Publishing, had not spread separatist propaganda.
The charge is often levelled at critics of Turkey's policy towards its estimated 12 million Kurds.
Bekir Rayif Aldemir, the prosecutor, said he 'understood the book did not seek to divide the Turkish nation'.
Mr Tas faced a year in prison for printing American Interventionism, a collection of Mr Chomsky's political essays in which he accuses Turkey of 'brutal repression' of the Kurds.
'The prosecutor clearly made the right decision,' Mr Chomsky told reporters after the hearing.
'Hopefully this will serve as a step for establishing freedom of speech in Turkey.'
Mr Tas, a 22-year-old university student, has six other cases pending against him, carrying a possible 24-year prison term, all for printing articles or books dealing with the Kurdish issue.
He called yesterday's ruling 'insincere' and suggested the presence of the professor from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology had helped him escape a jail sentence.
'The case was dismissed, but this is not a sincere verdict, it was given because of Mr Chomsky's support,' he said.
No charges were filed against Mr Chomsky.
Defence lawyers had asked that he be included as a co-defendant, but prosecutors declined.
A vocal critic of US foreign policy, Mr Chomsky said before the hearing that Americans had a responsibility to monitor and protest against human rights abuses in Turkey, which is a close ally.
'When the United States provides 80 per cent of arms to Turkey for the express purpose of carrying out repression, that becomes my responsibility,' he said.
The timing of Mr Chomsky's arrival could not have been worse for Turkey.
Just a few streets from the State Security Court, where the hearing was held, the Turkish government was playing host to a high-profile international conference bringing together foreign ministers from Islamic and European Union countries.
Most of the allegations of human rights abuses in Turkey stem from fighting between security forces and Kurdish rebels seeking self-rule.
Some 37,000 people have died in the conflict, which began in 1984.
Rebels declared a unilateral ceasefire after the 1999 capture of their leader, Abdullah Ocalan, and an atmosphere of relative peace now prevails.
Turkey has started phasing out emergency rule in the mainly Kurdish regions.
Also in 1999, Turkey became the first predominantly Muslim nation to join the EU's list of official candidates for membership.
But the country's poor human rights record and the refusal to grant its estimated 12 million Kurds greater cultural rights are cited among the chief reasons why entry is continually delayed.
Earlier this month, parliament passed a set of human rights reforms intended to help Turkey meet EU standards.
The authenticity of a National Gallery Rubens has been called into question again.
The last time Samson and Delilah was auctioned, two decades ago, it was the second most expensive painting ever sold.
That must mean something.
So, apart from the millions of pounds involved, and the reputation of our best art historians, critics and academics - in what way, if any, does it matter?
If the most educated experts can't tell for certain whether or not the thing's a Rubens, why should we art-proles worry?
What does it lack, this almost perfect copy, or fake, or homage, or brilliant pupil's effort?
What's the difference?
What's the difference, indeed, between a perfect copy and its original?
And what else are Monday mornings for than to consider the nature and value of art?
First it must be said, perfect copies of oil paintings are impossible.
Your old masters are just too peculiar.
I don't believe much about art but I do believe that.
It became clear for me at a Frick exhibition of Rembrandt self- portraits.
We were kept back from the canvasses by a red rope a couple of feet from the wall.
You could lean in and inspect the paint as close as you liked, limited only by the length of your nose.
And in doing so, something very odd happened.
Rembrandt's eye which had been so eloquent, so real, such a representation of a real eye, disappeared when you saw it from four inches away.
It only reappeared when you leant back an inch or so.
You leant in and the eye exploded, becoming a mess of specks, slashes, splashes, splodges, spiral lines.
Its components were chaotic.
You leant back and there it was, harmonious and full of meaning.
Well, blank despair at any rate.
There are more fakeable artists.
In Orson Welles's film F for Fake, we saw the great forger Elmyr de Hory at the easel.
Casually, in half-a-dozen brush strokes, he'd make a Matisse and then throw it on the fire, a Chagall and throw it on the fire, a Picasso and throw it on the fire.
Acting in this capacity, de Hory was a marvellous craftsman rather than an artist, but the product, what was that?
What effect would de Hory's Chagalls have had on gallery experts, on connoisseurs, on ravished collectors?
In what way would the quality of their experience be different from that provided by the original?
All the aesthetes who've sat in front of Samson and Delilah over the years, working themselves up into a lather over the brushwork, what will they say if and when Rubens is declared innocent of the painting?
They who have been moved, who claim to have been changed, how will they reconcile their new state to this betrayal?
Picasso regularly used to be to be asked to authenticate works that were sold as his.
He always refused ('There are too many Picassos around,' he said.
'It depresses the price.')
One time, he was told the piece he'd condemned as a fake was indeed from his own hand.
'Sometimes I fake Picassos,' he said.
That's an interesting idea.
When he imitates his own mannerisms, he fakes himself.
Yes, there is something in a masterpiece that speaks to us across the generations.
The second- rate, or the third-rate, the brilliant copies and the awful fakes reveal themselves in time.
A Madonna and child forgery from the 1920s became obvious, quite suddenly, 50 years afterwards, when the similarity between the Madonna and Clara Bow was observed for the first time.
It is one of those media friendly terms that covers up a multitude.
Alcohol- related illnesses.
This week we were told that these illnesses are in danger of destroying the NHS and are responsible for 33,000 deaths every year, and that eight out of 10 people attending emergency units have alcohol related injuries.
In a society that encourages us to escape pain rather than face it, alcohol is the favourite anaesthetic.
Yet alcohol related illnesses doesn't have the 'oh my god', scare-you-witless, let's-find-a-cure-fast resonance of a word such as cancer or leukaemia, nor is it loaded with dread like the phrase sexually transmitted disease.
How many people hear alcohol-related illness and think of a sick head in the morning, a transitory discomfort that will be gone by afternoon?
Before I get going, let me enter an all too important caveat: I am not remotely anti-booze.
God bless good wine and beer and whiskey, 'beakers full of the warm south with beaded bubbles winking at the brim and purple stained mouth' etc.
Or as Flann O'Brien's 'poet of the people' put it when eulogising Guinness stout in the comic masterpiece At Swim Two Birds: 'When food is scarce and your larder bare, and no rashers grease your pan... a pint of plain is your only man.'
If you can drink and not succumb to one of those mysterious alcohol-related illnesses, the best of luck to you.
But if you are one of those whom booze seduces and then betrays, if you spend your days and nights chasing the warm rainbow, then this week's news should be very scary indeed.
Are you the one in company who is watching the wine bottle and wondering whether the others will think it odd if you order another and then saying to hell with what they think?
Or the one who sees a friend leaving a glass of wine unfinished and wonders what in God's name is wrong with them?
Maybe you are the guy who wakes up and for a few terrifying minutes has no earthly idea where he is or what he did last night, or the woman who rolls over and looks into the face of a stranger and wonders if she will be able to get up and get dressed and escape before they wake.
And if you have known that morning where nothing lifts you - not beer or wine or whiskey - then alcohol-related illness is already with you.
It's screwing with your head and in time will get around to your body.
That poor body.
There's no end of misery that alcohol can bring.
Liver, pancreas, heart, bowel slowly poisoned to death.
That's usually well under way before the exterior starts falling apart: before pissing blood and the yellow pallor and parchment skin; before the amputated leg or the body immobilised by a stroke; before the brain reduced to mush from all those tides of booze washing over it down the years.
I have been to the funerals of many friends who have fallen into alcoholic death.
It is never, ever an easy death.
Scrub from your mind forever the notion of a romantic drunkard's death, disregard every admiring profile you read of the rebellious drunken singer/poet.
I read that rubbish and think of a man who choked to death on his own vomit, a man who died of heart failure and wasn't found for a week, the beautiful woman with an angel's voice found bloated and poisoned on her kitchen floor, a man who died far from those he loved in a small room in a town where nobody knew him.
Every one of them left people behind burdened with the question: why?
Alcohol-related illnesses.
If you have ever visited a hospital for alcoholics on a weekend when the kids are visiting, you'll have seen the illness in its saddest and most cruel form.
Take a lawn full of drunks and their families and contemplate the fact that at best only a quarter will recover from alcoholism.
Regard every alcohol-related illness as a huge stone cast into a small pond, as a family broken and bewildered, made sick too by the disease in its midst.
I agree with Alcohol Concern; there is no bigger health crisis facing Britain.
Yet we remain curiously indifferent to the damage done to family life and the immense burden being placed on the health service.
Ask any recovering alcoholic and they gladly accept that responsibility for their sobriety is theirs alone.
But that is the rationale of a person who has made the first vital step towards recognising that a problem exists.
The first obstacle is the chronic denial around alcoholic illness.
It is everywhere around us, the elephant in the sitting room we refuse to acknowledge.
Hardly a family in the land is unaffected by the problem - most people know a cousin or a friend who battles with booze - yet there was a sense of shock when this week's statistics were unveiled.
It is difficult for families to face up to the issue in a society that is awash with denial.
Booze is embedded in our national rituals, the socially acceptable drug.
Far easier to rave on about heroin and junkies than to face alcohol addiction.
Popular culture celebrates drunkenness (for a good example of what I mean, witness the moronic behaviour trotted out on ITV's Holiday Reps programme each week).
We ban cigarette advertising from television but allow the continued flogging of booze.
We have high-alcohol drinks cynically aimed at the most vulnerable - I mean imagine the marketing strategy behind Special Brew.
Just who is the target market?
I can think of two immediate candidates: the young and the poor with little money who want to get pissed fast, and the alcoholic chasing oblivion.
When victims of alcohol abuse get sick they find a medical system woefully ill equipped to deal with the crisis.
Alcohol Concern carried out a survey last August that found that 71 per cent of doctors and nurses interviewed felt they had insufficient information to help dependent drinkers.
You might imagine that, with alcohol costing the NHS 3bn a year, politicians might express a sense of urgency.
But like the rest of us they are cocooned in denial.
This isn't a crisis that can be solved with drugs.
They can help you out of detox, but meaningful treatment depends on skilled counsellors.
Right now we have a chronic shortage of hospital places for those suffering from alcoholic illnesses.
We dry out the drunks and put them back on the street and they come back again and again.
Many find their way into the criminal justice system.
Not just the street drunks banged away for being drunk and disorderly, but also the businessmen and women hauled off to the cells because they've trashed the house or committed an assault, the man who kills in the middle of a blackout.
I normally rush for the door when I hear a politician or civil servant droning on about 'co-ordinated strategy'.
But the scale of damage being done by alcohol- related illness demands action across the widest range of areas.
It means a huge increase in funding for alcoholism treatment and research and a willingness on the part of political leaders and the media to end the denial.
We must talk about this stuff that kills so many, bring the healthcare professionals, the criminal justice system, the media and the drinks industry into a public debate.
To the millions caught in the middle of this nightmare, something better is owed than the present dishonest shambles.
