 Rather as Basil Fawlty couldn't stop talking about the war to his German guests, so Peter Hain, the Minister for Europe, finds it almost impossible to stop talking about the euro, even though he knows he shouldn't.
In a conversation with Le Figaro that can hardly fail to inflame the Treasury, Mr Hain has just floated a detailed timetable for potential British entry into the single currency, pointing to a referendum in the spring and autumn of 2003.
As it happens, Mr Hain's remarks were not part of some plot to soften up British opinion for entry.
Today Jack Straw travels to The Hague to make an important speech on the future of European institutions.
In it the Foreign Secretary will set out some of the latest British thinking in advance of the Convention due to begin at the end of this month under the chairmanship of Valery Giscard d'Estaing.
It was hardly in the interests of Mr Hain, as the senior British representative on the Convention, to do anything to distract from his boss's focus on the daunting exercise in constitution-building in which he will be taking part.
What's more, Mr Hain didn't really confide in Le Figaro anything that isn't a very open secret in Whitehall, namely that a working hypothesis exists that would allow a euro-referendum as early as spring 2003.
And while what Mr Hain said wasn't really new, some of what Mr Straw says today will be.
True, the intriguing idea of, in effect, a full-time President of the EU, at the very least complementary to the Commission President, is floated as an option in terms so opaque as to be almost invisible.
But others, such as rotating the presidencies of the ministerial councils, which cover subjects ranging from agriculture to the environment, every two and a half years, and making those council chairs an 'executive board' responsible for the day-to-day running of the EU, are substantive.
And what will shine through is the British belief that it is the ministerial and prime ministerial councils that must be strengthened.
While there are also ideas for entrenching the European Parliament's rights of scrutiny, it is the councils, composed of representatives of elected national governments, which in British eyes principally give the EU democratic legitimacy.
But if Mr Hain's Fawlty-style tic did not produce anything new, it was a reminder, if needed, of how difficult it is to stay silent about what everyone agrees is by far the biggest decision the government will have to take in the coming year - whether to call a referendum on the euro.
It does not reflect a change of policy, which remains in favour of entry in principle but only if and when Mr Brown's five economic tests are met.
However, what it does reflect, perhaps subconsciously, is a subtle but perceptible change in the weather.
It always used to be said (subject, of course, to the tests) that Mr Blair would call a referendum on the euro if and when he thought he could win.
That no longer has much meaning, if it ever did.
First, it implies a greater detachment on the Prime Minister's part than is justified.
By all accounts, Mr Blair wants it enough to take what he believes is a justifiable risk.
He isn't persuaded by the argument - shared by a few in Downing Street and many more in the Treasury - that it would be better to wait until 2006, perhaps, by which time the euro would be such a fact of life that the British people would sleepwalk into it.
He is, it is said, much more sympathetic to the argument that to wait until then would sap Britain's credibility in Europe; would reduce, perhaps fatally, Britain's chances of filling the leadership vacuum in the EU, and would make it more difficult to reshape policy (not least, to take one topical example, on the over-rigid stability pact, which Gordon Brown has rightly inveighed against).
But, above all, he is said to be increasingly optimistic that he could win in 2003.
What's more, it looks as if Mr Blair is right.
It's not just that there is gradually increasing polling evidence that once the Government - assuming it has the necessary support of Mr Brown - had recommended entry, there could be a majority in favour.
It's also that further detailed preparatory work strongly reinforces it.
In particular, focus-group research for Britain in Europe suggests that, apart from a substantial hardcore minority of opponents, the thirst for information on EMU - and the public's willingness to take the Government seriously as providers of it - is great (just as with, say, Aids or the millennium bug).
I yield to no one in my scepticism of focus groups.
But this is much in line with what any reporter on the road during the general election could hear with their own ears.
Self-declared opponents of entry, if pushed, would say first that they didn't 'know enough about it' and, secondly, that 'no one is really making the case for it'.
The qualitative research suggests that some of the pro-euro messages - from avoiding 'isolation' to enjoying lower prices - play very powerfully.
Mr Hain, a veteran of the Welsh referendum, knows all this.
One counter-argument is this: supposing Mr Blair became unpopular and the referendum became one on his premiership, rather as the French Maastricht referendum was on Franois Mitterand's record.
Well, given that Mr Blair's popularity remains undented after the pounding he has had in the last few weeks, it's difficult to see how this would happen.
In that sense ministers may be right when they say that the press may be less in touch than they are.
That isn't to say a referendum would not be a gamble - albeit a sensible one.
If the Cabinet were to hold - an unprecedented event - a substantive meeting on the issue, there would probably be a majority in favour of doing what Mr Blair wanted because he wanted it.
Margaret Beckett appears to be a striking, if tentative, convert.
But there are caveats.
Firstly, there are strong ministerial voices arguing - for example - that an EU-wide interest rate could leave higher taxes or spending cuts as the only inflation-fighting weapon, thus jeopardising all Labour's promises - an argument that could resurface in a referendum.
Secondly, euro-entry is not exactly a priority for other Cabinet ministers.
Focused on their departments, they aren't yet geared up for the fight But the big caveat is Mr Brown.
Whether and how he moves from his present deep caution remains the most fascinating question in British politics.
By all accounts, the Big Meeting between the two is yet to happen.
But while Mr Blair - whose enthusiasm is well attested - is a necessary condition, he is not sufficient.
Now, it is the Chancellor who is both a necessary and sufficient condition for entry.
There is a link between all this and Mr Straw's speech, even though he will not dwell on the euro.
Firstly, because a Europe on the lines that he will suggest could make euro-entry more congenial to the doubters.
But, secondly, because he will offer a robust defence of the EU and of pooling sovereignty to achieve domestic goals.
But that should not disguise the central fact.
The key issue is no longer so much one of agonising over whether the British people can wear it but of what is the dynamic within the Government.
There are more important things in life than Cate Blanchett's breasts, but not many.
All the Australian film star had to do was turn up at the premiere of her new movie last week, wearing a revealing dress, and the column inches filled up as if by magic.
Admittedly Blanchett was wearing a nice frock, unlike most of the models who took part in London Fashion Week - skin jewellery and a bearded lady were two of this year's highlights - but a photograph of her cupping her breasts was enough to prompt fevered speculation.
Had Blanchett dropped a cup size, so to speak, as a result of pregnancy?
The film's producers must have been delighted, as their star effortlessly extended the free publicity they had already received.
The contemporary fascination with women's bodies is a gift to anyone who has something to sell.
At the same time, it is a strange feature of a culture that could reasonably be described as obsessed with breasts that we seem to know very little about them.
I have not had children myself but even I know that childbirth produces physiological changes.
So do the contraceptive pill and getting older, which explains why the female population is buying bras in larger cup sizes than it did 20 years ago.
Yet Blanchett's appearance in a low-cut dress prompted trawls though picture libraries for 'before' and 'after' photographs, as well as confessions from other famous mothers who had experienced this alteration.
It may be that, in an era when women's breasts swell and shrink on the tables of cosmetic surgeons, we have forgotten that changes in breast size are a natural phenomenon.
To be fair, almost as much excitement was generated last week by Kylie Minogue's bottom, which was on show in a fetching mini-dress at the Brit Awards.
In recent weeks, columnists have been wheeled out to explain why we like Kylie so much more than Britney Spears; she has even been hailed as a symbol of everything the Taliban hated about the modern world.
This is quite a weight for Minogue's diminutive frame to bear and it suggests that the more women's bodies are on display, the more they need explaining and decoding.
Of course this is something to do with the fact that most women don't look like Blanchett or Minogue, and tend to be in a state of permanent anxiety about their appearance.
We no longer know what 'natural' women look like, but movie stars and models are no more representative than the ordinary women who are involved in a daily struggle to control their weight.
In that sense, even the most perfect female body has become a plethora of signs, pregnant with the prospect of its own disintegration; famous women in their twenties are studied minutely for signs of cosmetic surgery, anorexia, weight gain or an unannounced pregnancy.
The inspection is clinical enough when the women are young - Blanchett is 32 and gave birth to her first child in December - but positively lethal when they get older.
Spotting the signs of ageing has become a spectator sport: Princess Diana was only 36 when she died but royal watchers had already detected dimpled thighs, while Nicole Kidman and Jerry Hall were both accused of committing the sin of cellulite last year.
What is so unpleasant about all this is the atmosphere of blame in which it is carried out, as though getting older is a lifestyle choice made by lazy women rather than a natural process.
Kylie may have a perfect bottom at 33 but she won't in 15 years' time, as columnists will delight in telling her.
When bad people do evil things, then those who profit most are other bad people: it's like they have a sort of arrangement with each other.
We have already seen the Israeli government of Ariel Sharon taking advantage of last Tuesday's attacks in New York by invading Palestinian areas and murdering their citizens more or less at random.
Of course, with the impeccable instinct for public relations that Palestinians have always shown, some of the silly bastards allowed themselves to be taped celebrating the events at the World Trade Centre - there's one fat woman in ugly specs whose witless, grinning gob will stay with me for a long time.
But then 50 years of poverty, humiliation and cruelty do not, amazingly, automatically make you into a good, kind or sensible person.
However, I am left wondering, given how much circumstances always seem to conspire against the entirely reasonable cause of the Palestinian people, whether they wouldn't be better off in the end just jacking the whole thing in, giving up, closing the business, shutting up shop with the whole looking-for- justice thing, because it's not really working out, is it?
Yasser Arafat might be wise to issue a statement saying something like 'Look lads, we've given it a good go, but every time we think we're getting somewhere then some bloody thing happens which strengthens our enemies and puts us back to square zero.
I mean, I know our only crime in the first place was to be somewhere where a load of people from Europe wanted to be, but there's too many powerful forces ranged against us, so all of your mates at the PLO high command have decided we're going to knock the whole protest on the head.
From now on we're going to let the Israelis push us around, steal our land, destroy our homes and we're going to let them do it without a bleat of protest.
From now the Fateh supreme council can be contacted via a bed and breakfast hotel in Dover.
See you around, Yasser, Hanan and all the gang.'
Seeing the destruction wrought in the United States, watching all the various odious factions scrambling for advantage, unable to understand anything except their own twisted point of view, made me think what a nasty, dangerous species we really are.
Though human beings have the manual dexterity to manufacture all kinds of complex machines, our brains don't seem to have evolved at the same pace as our fingers, so that what we have in us is a creature with the basic mentality of a coyote but with the ability to create all manner of terrible weapons.
A while ago, The Sunday Times asked me to take part in selecting photographs taken from 50 years of the Magnum photographic agency: the theme was to be 'celebrating the human spirit'.
Along with others, I was to select six pictures and to write my comments, in hand, on the back for later publication in the magazine.
However, when I came to look at these black-and-white images, what I saw was a species so in love with itself and totally blind to its faults.
I remember I chose one image of Mother Theresa and wrote, 'From what I've read about this woman she was a rather nasty piece of work.
In this photo you can see the self-indulgent vanity shining out of her.
As they say on The Jerry Springer Show, 'she think she all that but she ain't'.'
Other pictures were meant to illustrate the supposed miracle of yet another child born to clog up the planet.
Funnily enough, The Sunday Times chose not to print my pictures or my comments.
All they wanted was gooey stuff about the indomitable human spirit, the fantastic wonderful specialness of our maggoty little species; they didn't want anybody wondering whether the planet wouldn't be a lot better off without us screwing it up.
I know that James Cameron and Arnold Schwarzenegger are currently working on the third in the Terminator series of movies.
Maybe in this latest version the heroes should be SkyNet, the computer that wants to wipe out mankind, and Cyberdyne Systems, manufacturers of the killer Cyborgs.
After a titanic struggle, John Connor, the leader of the human resistance, is defeated and our kind is wiped from the face of the Earth.
The machines convert themselves into singing cappuccino machines or fly off to explore other worlds or miniaturise themselves until they are the size of an atom and the planet that formerly housed us begins to heal itself.
The rainforests start to regrow over the shattered landscape, cute, furry, almost- extinct animals emerge to sniff the air and to repopulate, the seas again teem with life, the skies grow dark with birds.
And maybe, when you think about it, George W Bush might be arranging that situation for us right now.
