 The money ain't the problem.
It's what you do with it.
The developed world has taken on board the task of rebuilding the shattered economy of Afghanistan and has just pledged $1.8bn (1.3bn) in the first year to this end, with a total of $4.5bn over the next few years.
That is already nearly half way to the UN target of $10bn - although the World Bank reckons that $15 billion will eventually be needed.
The task now is to make sure that the money does not disappear down a black hole and that there is a viable economy that can sustain a decent standard of life for its people when the aid cheques run out.
Can it be done?
Afghanistan ranks at or about the bottom of the world scale on most conventional measures of human endeavour, insofar as figures are available at all.
Life expectancy is 42.5 years, 25 out of every 100 children die before they are five, 70 per cent of the population are undernourished and only a third of the adults can read and write.
It is, in that unpleasant expression so often used nowadays, a 'failed state'.
If it can come right, that would be a wonderful demonstration to the rest of the world that out of catastrophe can come, if not triumph, at least a modicum of success.
The first thing to appreciate is that there are clear limits to what outsiders can achieve.
Consider the money now pledged: it is tiny by the standards of developed countries but enormous by the standards of Afghanistan.
The whole $4.5bn, of which the UK's share is $288m, is less than the British taxpayer spent last year in eradicating foot- and-mouth disease.
Put another way, we spent four times as much on the Dome as we are spending on Afghanistan.
But relative to the Afghan economy, the money is big.
There are no reliable statistics for its GDP, but it is probably about $20bn a year.
There are some 25 million people, but per capita income is only around $800, 20 per cent lower than in neighbouring Tajikistan and only half that of Pakistan.
So the aid flow will be more than 5 per cent of GDP per annum - and a lot more in the first year.
That ought to be enough to make a material difference to the country's wellbeing.
But it has to be a lasting difference.
Some day the cheques will dry up and the expensive consultants in their white Range Rovers will go back home.
In any case these are proud, independent people who would not want to live off the meagre handouts of Western aid agencies, even if these continued to be available.
It would be nice to think that the various Western 'experts' from the World Bank and other agencies were going to be more successful at encouraging self-sustaining development here than they have been in, for example, most of Africa.
But their track record is discouraging.
Are there any reasons to suppose that, 10 years from now, Afghanistan will be seen as even a modest success?
Actually, I think there are.
But it will be largely because of them, not us.
We know enough about economic development to realise that there are several necessary but insufficient conditions for success.
There has, for a start, to be physical safety.
It is not just that wars are immensely destructive of wealth, which of course they are, but conditions of lawlessness greatly raise the cost of any economic activity.
There is no point trying to create a business if the proceeds are liable to be stolen; local people don't bother; and potential outside investors have plenty of other opportunities and stay away.
It now seems a reasonable assumption that there will be a period of reasonable order, or at least conditions where order is possible.
That creates a climate where contracts can be made and enforced, where titles to land and property are respected and, therefore, where businesses can be allowed to develop.
Next, the basic physical infrastructure has to work adequately well.
If you have power cuts it becomes impossible to run the basic essentials of a modern economy, such as computers and faxes.
Roads have to be passable in bad weather; the water has to be on; the airport has to be functioning; flights have to be at affordable prices; and, of course, health care has to be adequate too.
Again, there seems a reasonable possibility that most of this physical infrastructure will be fixed to an acceptable level in the next five years.
There is also a reasonable possibility that living conditions will be sufficiently attractive to encourage skilled people to return to Afghanistan to run the infrastructure, something that is just as important as basic reconstruction.
Next there has to be a functioning state, performing core services and able to collect taxes to pay for these.
There has to be a functioning banking system, enabling and encouraging savings and lending in order to finance economic activity.
This, too, looks set to happen.
So it is possible to be reasonable optimistic about these necessary but insufficient conditions for economic recovery.
To a fair extent these are problems that money and technical help can solve.
But ultimately whether the country is successful will turn on other, less easily generated - and less easily identified - qualities.
These have to come from within.
On the face of it the country seems short of things (opium poppies aside) to sell to the rest of the world.
It will gradually have to find these.
There are some obvious possibilities, for example ecotourism and the export of traditional craft products.
The economy will be supported, too, by emigrants' remittances and has, in the diaspora, a body of skills and contacts that could be of enormous help in the future.
But all experience of successful economic development is that it is impossible to plan success.
Instead you have to remove blockages to development, spot market signals that suggest that there is an opportunity, and then try and reinforce it.
The greatest reason for hope, though, is what has been happening in the last few weeks.
Within a few days of the end of hostilities, there was a burst of economic activity.
Shops opened, trading began.
Despite extraordinarily difficult circumstances, the economy got going again.
This is an enormously encouraging signal for Afghanistan.
Who could quibble with the new measures that usher in electronic tagging for persistent child offenders awaiting trial?
Not police chiefs, who have been pleading for ages for just such a system.
At last, they have got their wish and pilot schemes will commence in six areas in eight weeks, going nationwide in June.
Senior officers' complaints have focused particularly, but far from exclusively, on London - presently in the grip of a crime wave.
They estimate that up to 30 young offenders acting as if they are immune to the law are operating in each London borough.
Each time they are arrested and put on bail, they apparently get straight back out on the streets to commit further crimes or to intimidate witnesses.
They are adept at playing the system, and often do not turn up for their trials, so new dates have to be set and witnesses lose interest.
Now, instead of simply releasing them prior to their trials, the courts will be able to order tagging.
The suspects will then have to wear ankle bands linked to a unit in their home and connected to a computer.
The control will be backed by a night-time curfew.
The great - and undeniable - advantage is that it is far, far better than nothing.
Which right now is all that courts confronted with an innocent-until-proven-guilty child can offer.
One could be forgiven for being under the impression that dealing with this very problem - of persistent young offending - was one of the main pledges that got the Blair government delivered to power in the 1997 election.
The solution then, as I recall, was fast-track custodial sentencing.
Is this new move, then, simply confirmation that the 1998 Crime and Disorder Act has not worked?
It would seem that way to the cynical observer, who has been hearing about how persistent young offenders flout the law for years.
But in fact the reduction in time between arrest and sentencing targeted by the government was reached and outstripped some while ago.
As for the custodial sentences - well, the youth prisons are full to bursting, conditions in some are terrible, and they are worsening.
Retributive punishment is being exacted in this country at a faster clip than ever, often against the same people, again and again and again.
More prisons are being built at a cracking pace, even though the success of the Government's moves to tackle young offending so far have proved one thing beyond doubt: prison does not work.
If this sounds like a contradiction in terms, it isn't.
If all goes well - and despite appearances it still could - the new prisons will not be supplementing the old Victorian ones, but replacing them.
And God knows those grim, disgusting, ancient institutions need replacing.
They need replacing with more liberal institutions, in which the emphasis is not on punishment but rehabilitation.
And the institutions that are having the most success with young offenders are the ones doing just that.
For decades public feeling has been stirred up against the very idea of 'soft options'.
But it is the practical options that work.
A young offenders' institution in Reading, for example, scored a hit simply by cottoning on to the fact that the South-East was crying out for fork-lift truck drivers.
Training 50 young offenders resulted in 70 per cent of those on the course finding work on leaving prison.
Only three have reoffended.
Compare that 6 per cent to the 80 per cent of 14-16-year-olds who reoffend and the efficacy of retraining becomes obvious.
And tagging, despite its bad press, can work just as well.
The trouble is that it's not much good on its own.
Tagging works as part of an ISSP (intensive supervision and surveillance programme).
These have been up and running for some time, with educational courses, drug rehabilitation and schemes in which reparations are made to victims.
ISSPs, though, will not apply in the short term to the children affected under David Blunkett's new measures.
They will have to wait until they are convicted for the mercies of practical help and expert training to enter their lives.
And it is that great irony that sums up the impasse between right-wing and liberal attitudes to young criminals, as well as the internal contradictions held within the left-liberal view.
The right howls about the unfairness of the most anti-social of young people being the ones who get most help.
They continue to bay for blood despite the fact that their tough, punitive attitudes have been in the ascendancy for decades now.
They do not want offenders to be helped.
They want them to be made examples of.
But at the same time, the left is at fault for a different reason.
Liberals, while insisting that young offenders receive education tailored to their needs, are the first people to complain when it is suggested that helping children vulnerable to drifting into crime might be more sensible at an earlier stage.
Training young offenders to be fork-lift drivers is lauded, while offering children or entire schools courses in which vocational or practical skills are taught alongside academic ones is viewed with distrust.
What a weird, unhelpful contradiction this is.
Yes, it is unfair that disturbed children get the attention they crave only after they have become criminals.
But the right-wing answer - denying them this - is wrong.
Likewise the conservative call for difficult schoolchildren to be put into 'sin bins' is wrong.
What isn't wrong, though, is realising that many very young people in this country need the kind of guidance that ISSPs can offer before they even break the law - or are caught doing it.
I'm not suggesting here that difficult children should be treated like young criminals.
Instead I'm suggesting that young criminals should be treated like difficult children.
The strategies for dealing with young people who are not coping with the education system as it stands should be similar whether or not they have committed crimes.
It is mad for an institution on the 'inside' to be considered loonily liberal because it offers manual job training and drug rehab, and one on the 'outside' to be labelled a 'sin bin' because it can offer lost youngsters similar help.
The annoying thing is that the Government appears to know this.
Its policies point rather lamely in a direction whereby this happy state of affairs might be achieved.
But again and again, this Government ducks the real business of politics.
Instead of winning hearts and minds, it prefers to take the coward's way out and spin its not-too-liberal policies so that they appease, rather than inspire, those on both sides of the political divide.
The result is not quite, but something akin to, entropy.
Instead, unbelievably, the police, the judiciary and the prison system are blamed for rising crime.
Isn't it pretty obvious that without crime we would not need these institutions at all?
They need to be viewed as part of the solution, not part of the problem.
To this end, they all need reform - the judiciary being the only one that has ducked it, and the one that needs it most.
But these are merely the bodies that deal with the human detritus we call criminals.
It is our wider world that makes them.
Diaries exposing the secret life of Kurt Cobain, the Nirvana singer who killed himself eight years ago, have been sold to a publishing house for 2.8m.
Cobain's estate, which is managed by his widow, Courtney Love, struck the deal with Riverhead Books, a US subsidiary of the British media giant Pearson, after fierce bidding.
The journals, which are said to include frank accounts of Cobain's battles with depression and heroin addiction, are likely to be published this year.
Cobain, who was 27 when he killed himself in 1994, began writing his diaries when he was a teenager and continued during his to fame.
James Barber, who assists Ms Love in managing the estate, told an American newspaper yesterday that the diaries contained 'really cool stuff'.
There are revelations about encounters with groupies and a handwritten draft of 'Smells Like Teen Spirit', which took the Seattle grunge band to the top of the charts.
There are also lists of Cobain's favourite records, rules he set for the band and letters from fans.
Although the publication is bound to provoke renewed speculation about the life and death of the controversial star, Mr Barber insisted the estate was conscious of protecting his reputation.
'He's not here and [our] responsibility is to promote his creativity and his legacy,' he said.
Julie Grau, editorial director of Riverhead, part of Penguin Putnam, said: 'The journals are an intimate portrait of an artist of great influence.'
They were a vital source for Charles Cross's biography of the singer, Heavier than Heaven, after he was granted access to them by Courtney Love.
She has provoked much criticism before and since Cobain's death in 1994, standing accused of manipulating him in life and then exerting unreasonable control of his legacy.
