 When I was about 20, I worked in an office.
Every morning there would be that little joke, where anyone who arrived five minutes late would say 'Morning' and everyone would call back 'Afternoon'.
The next joke would come at about 11, when the boss would take his coffee cup across to the sink to rinse it out.
Every day he'd say, 'Just going off to wash my thing - ha ha ha.'
And every day I wished I had the guts to wait five minutes, say 'Just going off to wash my thing,' then walk to the sink, get my knob out and scrub it with a dishcloth.
Like most office workers, I never had any idea of the purpose of my office, though the supervisor does his best to make out the job is extremely important when you first get there.
'Well it's a pleasure to have you with us as a vital part of the team.
You'll be sitting here, with Harold, and every morning the newspapers will be delivered to your desk here.
Now your job is to go through all those newspapers, one by one, very carefully indeed, and colour in the Os.
Be very careful not to do the noughts in the sports pages, and when you've finished, hand them across to Harold for authorisation.'
And poor Harold, who's been there 54 years, will say, 'Cor blimey, it's like a madhouse in here sometimes.
We were in here until 20 past seven one night, you know.
The evening newspaper had a big article about Yoko Ono going up the Orinoco, you see.'
Recently, for the first time since, I've been commuting to an office again, and I realise that I'd forgotten the most important aspect of the whole business.
It starts with getting the train, which has been at least 10 minutes late every day except once.
But a new trick has been added.
At London Victoria, the Underground gets so crowded that a giant yellow light flashes and a siren wails with the sort of noise you'd expect to hear if aliens invaded.
Then a huge metal shutter is drawn across the entrance to stop anyone getting in, for up to 20 minutes, and a crowd of several hundred builds up.
One morning someone lost it, as if it was a trench in the First World War, and yelled 'That's it, I'm going in!'
and squeezed round the gap to charge through a line of security guards and make a break for it.
It felt like the rest of us should shout, 'Oh my God, Tommy's cracked,' and 'The fool, he's going over the top!'
Instead it was more like Invasion of the Body Snatchers, with the rest of us thinking 'Don't fight it.
Be like us and accept it, then there's no more pain, just a numbness that's quite pleasant once you're used to it.'
And that way you become a commuter, each day's journey indistinguishable from the next, so that you notice the tiniest differences.
'Aha', I thought one day, 'I must be slightly later than yesterday, because the busker is at the end of 'Hotel California' whereas most days she's only just started.'
But some things are different from before.
To get into this office involves a series of checks, guards and airport-style bag searches that make you wonder whether you've come to an underground military centre to work on a secret spaceship.
I saw someone who'd worked there 10 years being searched 'to see if they were carrying any forks', because 'we have to be careful since 11 September.'
Because you can't be sure that a middle manager hasn't been playing a long game, slowly getting themselves promoted to reach a position where they could run amok with a fork in revenge for the Israeli occupation of the West Bank.
Not only that, but in order to repeat the havoc of 11 September, this unlikely operative of the Berkshire faction of al-Qa'ida would need to have perfected the technique of getting offices to fly.
Besides which, inside the building is a huge canteen containing about fifty million forks.
Once inside, nothing can be done without a note or a permit or a laminated card.
A memo came round one morning to tell us that 'today between noon and one o'clock, you will receive a visit from the internal window cleaner.'
You start to worry about saying 'I'm just nipping to the toilet' in case someone in authority says, 'First you'll need to go to the fourth floor and visit the slash department to get your khazi warrant validated.'
In some ways, office work is as class-ridden as anything from the 19th-century, because its main purpose appears to be to wreck your self-esteem.
The worst thing about spending all day being shunted from broken-down train to overcrowded Tube to bureaucratic mini-metropolis is how it makes you feel utterly worthless.
It makes you wonder whether sheep were originally super-intelligent creatures who ruled the world, but after a few centuries of being herded across fields in groups of several hundred, one by one they all gave up and thought, 'Oh sod it, I might as well stare in a gormless trance until someone mercifully sticks me in a stew.'
If hell does exist, I think it almost certainly contains a corner devoted to pointless discussions.
Under satanic coercion the damned will be obliged to sit for eternity discussing whether nature is more important than nurture or whether screen violence leads to imitative behaviour.
And, if you've behaved with particular vileness, you will be forced to join the endless debate about the state of the British film industry.
Quite a few people will be doing this voluntarily this week - provoked by the Bafta shortlist of nominations for best British film, which this year includes some titles that seem to stretch the definition a little.
Chris Columbus's Harry Potter and Robert Altman's Gosford Park are packed with British A-list talent, but both are directed by Americans and financed almost entirely with American money.
Surely, the sceptics will say, this is the kind of smash-and-grab raid that the best British film category was designed to prevent.
The award has always had a smack of the consolation prize - as if it were one of those Tried Jolly Hard stickers that the more anxious schools give out on sports day, so that slow boys aren't discouraged.
But what's the point of cordoning off a section of the trophy table, if Hollywood can just lean over and rake in the cups?
Bafta's definition of Britishness turns out to be pretty straightforward.
If you qualify for government tax relief as a British film then you qualify for this section.
Since the rules are that a film only counts as British if more than 70 per cent of its budget is spent in the United Kingdom and more than 70 per cent of the payroll goes to European and Commonwealth talent, you can see that there's a concept of nationality here that is more all-embracing than that generally adopted by the UK immigration service.
But Bafta's approach to this matter strikes me as perfectly sensible - or at least properly insouciant about an essentially trivial matter.
Besides, there really isn't a workable alternative.
While there might be a popular prejudice in favour of the 'who pays the piper' approach to establishing national pedigree (if the Americans foot the bill then it's an American movie), it very quickly runs into trouble.
Bridget Jones's Diary, for instance, could credibly be claimed as a French movie by those lights, since a large chunk of money came from Studio Canal.
Follow the money and you could claim that Peter Greenaway makes Dutch movies and Ken Loach Spanish ones.
It doesn't help to call for the travel documents of the producer or director, either.
Is Black Hawk Down a British film simply because Ridley Scott can walk through the fast track at Heathrow passport control?
Or should A Room with a View be regarded as quintessentially Indo-American because its producer (Ismail Merchant) comes from Bombay and its director (James Ivory) from New York?
More importantly, who cares, apart from the production accountants who must squeeze every last drop out of the smallprint?
The truth is that the patrimony of a film - amorphous and debatable -- is probably the least interesting thing about it.
Cinema has always been a medium that thrived on the genius of immigrants - in this country as much as in America.
What would Hollywood have been without Schmuel Gelbfisch (the young Polish boy who later adopted the fabulously aspirational name Sam Goldwyn)?
What would British cinema be without Korda and Pressburger?
To those questions we might legitimately add another one.
What would American cinema be without the legions of British economic migrants and gastarbeiters who do their time in the Hollywood hills?
It's time to recognise that Britishness has been so successfully exported that Britons can no longer claim a monopoly on its virtues.
Of late I have begun cutting my own hair.
Before this, up until a few months ago, I would go perhaps twice a month to my barber, Gino of Marchmont Street, London WC1, to have my hair trimmed by clippers on a No 1 setting, with my beard cut slightly longer.
However, for several years now Gino's has been getting more and more popular.
I don't know if this has anything to do with a number of extremely attractive women from around the world working there.
Is it a sort of timid man's lap dancing?
I couldn't say.
Whatever the reason, occasionally I would have to wait a long time before I would get to sit in the chair for the few minutes that it would take to have my own sparse bonce done.
Now, I am an extremely busy man, a popular and gregarious individual who is surrounded by a large and vibrant family who keep me on the go 23/6, as they say.
The fact that just at this moment I am sitting alone in a dingy basement apartment, the dank room lit by a single light bulb, on the day after Boxing Day, dining on some stale crackers and able to devote the whole day to writing 800 words to fill in for Howard Jacobson at a moment's notice is merely a statistical anomaly.
Whatever, I felt I didn't have the time to sit around waiting my turn so while I was in Spain I purchased a set of electric clippers and set about myself in the bathroom.
At first the result was a revelation to me; as far as I could see my haircut was as good as I had been getting from the professionals over all these years.
'My God!'
I thought to myself, 'I've been squandering seven pounds a month!'
Not to mention all the effort I'd put in to walking painfully up and down Marchmont Street leaning on a Zimmer frame to qualify for the OAP discount, now revealed as a terrible waste of time.
My do-it-yourself haircut seemed to be a confirmation of an idea that had been at the back of my mind since the time I started losing my hair to male-pattern baldness.
A bald man like me often harbours resentment about spending money on tonsorial elaboration since it appears an essentially pointless exercise.
Or sometimes we baldies can go the other way.
For example, there was a previous editor of this newspaper who was as bereft of hair as I, yet who would visit the society trimmer Trevor Sorbie on average about once a week, which - knowing the prices that Sorbie charges - must have worked out at about 15 a hair.
So now I thought I was saving myself both time and money.
I had a neat haircut while freeing up the time I would have spent at the hair salon to do more important things, like download different tones for my mobile from the internet and dribble spittle on the dining room table.
Yet after a few days something strange happened to my previously uniform haircut (and I suspect this is where the skill of the professional hairdresser lies).
Where there seemed to be an evenly cropped skull, there suddenly appeared clumps of ragged hair (which I had missed when I had been peering in the mirror) along with completely smooth, irregularly shaped bald patches (which took much longer to grow back than the surrounding hair), bloody scars and cuts and long, springy, cable-like black hairs that sprouted from the dome of my pate.
And frankly, God knows what's going on behind me.
The other day, while I was walking past the Dalston Mosque in east London, an angry crowd of worshippers began to form in my wake, and a growing mob followed me for quite some distance, muttering furious threats and imprecations, until I was forced to jump on to a bus.
Piecing together what they shouted at me afterwards led me to believe that with my clippers and a wobbly hand I may inadvertently have carved various foul obscenities in Arabic script onto the back of my skull.
In the end, I have nobody to blame but myself.
I thought that I didn't need anybody else, I thought I could do it for myself, I was arrogant and vain, and as a result I am now forced to go out only at night, to slink through the streets of Bloomsbury with my hideous visage covered by a long, black hooded cloak.
Also, since I have had time to dwell on it (though I admit I am perhaps obsessed), it strikes me that, in the past few months, isn't that in a way what the US has been doing - cutting its own hair?
Since September, the US has in essence, despite the convenient cloak of an alliance, been acting on its own, unilaterally, with no recourse to the collective advice and wisdom of those who know a lot more about the situation than the US does or who will suffer the consequences of the US's actions.
At the moment we are in the first days of the new haircut, everything looks uniform and smart, but in the coming months there is no knowing what strange lumps and excrescences will appear, what bald patches or ugly springy hairs will sprout, what obscenities will be written.
Or everything might turn out OK.
The fast-food giant McDonald's was taken to court yesterday by dozens of people who claim to have been scalded by their hot drinks.
The 36 victims, most of whom are children, claim that the cups used by McDonald's were not suitable and that the tea and coffee was too hot, the High Court heard.
Timothy Horlock QC, representing the group, said children were particularly at risk from being scalded, with at least 16 claimants aged four or under at the time of the accident.
'This is not surprising since, according to the defendant's own statistics, 60 per cent of accidents to their customers happen to children under 10,' Mr Horlock said.
He said the company's marketing strategy was designed to attract young customers.
He said many people did not realise the drinks served at McDonald's were often far hotter than at home.
'There was no expectation on the part of the general public that a burn from one of these drinks could result in injuries needing skin grafts,' Mr Horlock said.
Mr Horlock told the preliminary hearing that McDonald's was aware of the danger and was negligent in not taking measures to protect its customers.
He said the average temperature of drinks served in McDonald's machines ranged from 75C to 90C.
McDonald's is contesting the action.
In 1994, it settled a case with a woman who claimed she suffered serious burns after spilling coffee bought from a McDonald's in New Mexico.
She was awarded $2.9m (2m) by a jury, which was reduced to $640,000 (450,000) on appeal.
The hearing continues today.
