 The renaissance in children's literature is turning out to be one of the most striking cultural characteristics of our times.
Whether we are reassessing the achievements of the past, as with the film of The Lord of the Rings, or falling in love with current child-heroes like Harry Potter, there has never been another time when children's literature could command such attention.
About six months ago I wrote on these pages that Philip Pullman's novel The Amber Spyglass would be a worthy winner of the Booker Prize.
In the event it didn't make the shortlist, but it lived to fight another day.
On Tuesday night, Pullman walked away with the Whitbread Prize.
That prize thrives on the neat concept of first dividing books up into categories - novel of the year, children's book of the year, and so on - and then breaking down the categories for its overall prize.
That meant that these judges could give the award to Philip Pullman without being accused of dumbing down to the level of a children's book.
Peculiarly, this still seems to be a very real fear.
Although we are currently seeing such an unexpected outpouring of energy in literature for children, many commentators are still afraid to admit that these books can stand alongside other literature.
Novelists such as Philip Hensher and Howard Jacobson have mocked the adults who eagerly turn the pages of the Harry Potter books, or, even worse, queue up to see the film without the excuse of a seven-year-old child by their side.
And when Peter Jackson's film of The Lord of the Rings was released, sceptical critics such as Mark Lawson, Thomas Sutcliffe and David Sexton poured scorn on people who took their childish delights into adulthood.
They seem to believe that people who sink into tales that shrug off the adult world are absurd, or even a bit dangerous.
In one critic's words, we are proof of 'the infantilisation of adult culture'.
But these critics who are proud to be too sophisticated to enjoy a book where a bear talks or a dragon flies might be missing out.
They needn't be afraid that they will lose their critical edge if they let down their guard against childish things for an instant.
Do we still have to spell it out?
It really is possible to like Rowling and Roth, to enjoy Pullman as well as Proust.
What is endearing about the new breed of children's writers is that they are firing a new bolt of energy into literature.
Nave?
Yes, they may be nave.
But what they don't suffer from is the deadening claustrophobia of so much acclaimed literature for grown-ups.
Readers who fell on hyped novels such as Jonathan Franzen's The Corrections or Margaret Atwood's The Blind Assassin, only to find them imaginatively underpowered, will know what I mean when I say that even the biggest novels today can seem much smaller than life.
Still, perhaps those novels honestly reflect the problematic aspects of our current condition, whereas the children's writers have the liberty of escapism.
That may be true.
But sometimes it is worth going on these journeys - not just to escape, but also to return.
I'm sure I'm not alone in saying that after stepping into Rowling's world or into Pullman's world, both of which thrive on the staggeringly precise and sensual detailing of their fantasy universes, I found that the everyday world had juddered a little.
Without doubt they do lack other qualities that you look for in literature that isn't meant for children.
But still, Rowling and Pullman can achieve that precious effect on the reader of tearing away the veils of familiarity and reawakening one to the oddness and beauty of ordinary life.
And let's not sidestep what is, perhaps, the most obvious point of these books' appeal.
As with J K Rowling, Pullman fulfils an often unassuaged longing in this secular age - he describes a great battle between good and evil, a battle where everything is at stake, where you have to take sides.
For some people this is just too simple to be enjoyable.
They recognise that morality is always about shades of grey, and they don't like being seduced into these grand images of deep black and dazzling white.
But I find this engagement with ethical themes intriguing.
And Pullman's moral vision is the most refreshing I've seen in a children's book for a long time, because unlike so many others, he does moral fervour without falling into a sub- Christian message.
On the contrary, his work contains the most impassioned cry to accept the death of God since Nietzsche.
No wonder Christians have shied away from his books.
The Amazon website, where readers can post opinions, contains hundreds of reviews from the United States, many of them from parents who call his vision 'satanic' and 'dark and terrifying', and warn other families off them.
The same can be heard here.
Claudia Fitzherbert wrote in a newspaper yesterday: 'Christian parents beware: his books can damage your child's faith.'
Indeed, they can.
Many writers who have tried to preach their atheism in their literature, like writers who have tried to preach their religion, have ended up weakening their vision.
But here the loss of faith is made vivid and energetic.
The thrust of the trilogy that is completed by The Amber Spyglass is to re-run the Fall, but this time sexuality and knowledge are good, and authority is bad.
The priests and the church are the embodiment of evil.
The aim of the child protagonists is hardly unambitious - it is to destroy the dream of the kingdom of heaven, and instead to put one's faith in building the republic of heaven in one's own lifetime.
Isn't this is a great vision for the world after 11 September?
Here we have a book that asks us to believe that we can build a new, highly moral world without the precepts of religion.
Sure, Pullman ends up having his cake and eating it.
After all, a fantasy that includes angels, witches, embodied souls and the possibility of movement between parallel worlds is hardly a secular universe.
This is still a children's book, and it retains comforting, childish elements - so it can alleviate the dreariness of rationalism with magic flowers and talking bears.
Nevertheless, it's fascinating that such a book has found such an audience now.
We have all learnt not to ask writers to give us any moral messages.
With most literature that works perfectly, because it makes us alive to irony and imagination without boxing the work up with moral preconceptions.
But Pullman is actually asking his readers to engage with him ethically as well as imaginatively.
He says wonderfully old-fashioned things like: 'Blake once wrote of Milton that he was 'of the Devil's party, without knowing it'.
I am of the Devil's party, and I know it.'
Pullman celebrates beliefs that should be central to the world we want to build now - beliefs in equal sexual love, in suspicion of authority, in free thought and in a connection with the environment.
His sales and reputation suggest that many readers are absolutely entranced by fiction that can mint such brilliant coinage from the dusty moral currency of our age.
And even those people who deplore the so-called infantilisation of adult culture would go a long way to find anything else that has such power to make us think and wonder.
Open a kitchen drawer in any home, and they will spring out at you like a jack- in-the-box.
Go to any beauty spot, and you are sure to encounter a few, trapped among the plants like giant insects or flapping noisily in the wind.
Floating in the local river or blocking your nearest storm drain, plastic carrier bags are an unsightly and environmentally degrading fact of modern life.
The Irish government took action yesterday, imposing a tax of 15 cents (9p) - dubbed the 'plastax' - on single-use plastic shopping bags, payable by the shopper, not the shop.
In Britain, supermarkets were considering whether the green levy might eventually cross the Irish Sea.
Environmentalists, meanwhile, were estimating how far the annual consumption of 12 billion bags would fall if it did - and whether shoppers might change their habits if they had to pay for the environmental consequences of their actions.
The notion was given a tentative thumbs-up last night by the Secretary of State for the Environment, Margaret Beckett, after a meeting in Brussels with her European counterparts.
'It's an interesting idea,' she said.
'We are in close touch with our Irish colleagues on environmental issues, and though it's not something we have in mind, we will watch the results of the Irish initiative with interest.'
There is no doubt that the Irish Republic has a problem with plastic bags.
The idea of a surcharge on every carrier bag, whether given away or sold, was first floated in 1999, but it has taken until now to implement.
Even this introduction was delayed from 1 January because the government feared that bringing in such a measure and the euro on the same day would be too much for Ireland's consumers to cope with.
Ireland's bag tax is expected to raise more than 100m annually, which will be channelled into environmental schemes.
But Bobby Malloy, the Environment minister who first suggested the idea, was clear about its aims.
He said yesterday: 'The primary purpose of this levy is not to generate revenue, but to change consumer behaviour.
'I want to see a significant reduction in the use of plastic shopping bags and a subsequent reduction in the number of bags that end up as litter.'
The only exemption in Ireland's shops and supermarkets are the so-called 'bags for life', sold by many supermarkets for the equivalent of 10p, which are replaced for free when they wear out.
Indeed, many Irish supermarkets reported a brisk trade in these last weekend.
On this side of the Irish Sea, a number of groups are watching developments closely.
The environmental group Friends of the Earth believes it could be significant.
FoE spokesman Mike Childs said: 'Innovations like this will hopefully focus people's mind on reusing plastic bags, and reduce the amount of unnecessary waste that is so easily created.
We will follow its effectiveness with great interest.'
It might seem obvious that if you charge people for something which they used to get free, they will use it less.
The same logic underpins the proposals made a week ago by the Commission for Integrated Transport, to charge British drivers not for car ownership or petrol use but by road usage, based on demand.
Plastic bags can be recycled, but only about 0.5 per cent ever are, despite schemes such as that operated by Sainsbury's, which gives a 1p refund for every bag that is reused.
Shredded and compacted, they can also be used as bedding for roads and in the construction of buildings.
Yet plastic bags represent only one part of the complex overall waste problem, according to both environmental groups and those who make the bags.
At the British Plastics Federation, the watchword is restraint.
The BPF's senior adviser on industrial issues, Marcia Gick, said: 'A survey in Australia found that cigarette butts caused four times more litter than plastic bags.'
The survey was done by weight.
And, she added, the Irish have a very different problem from us in the United Kingdom.
They have a large rural population, and a very bad record on waste collection and disposal.'
The Irish counterpart of the BPF lobbied, unsuccessfully of course, against the plastax.
Now the BPF must consider whether it might arrive here - although Ms Gick is quite confident that it will not.
'The only other European state which taxes plastic bags is Denmark, which has a tax on all packaging - and a similar problem to that of Ireland, with a big rural population and not enough recycling.
And there have been complaints from other European Union states that the tax creates a distortion in the market and so is against EU rules.'
However European states have found a variety of ways to encourage recycling.
In Belgium, supermarkets encourage re-use of their carrier bags by crediting shoppers with points on their loyalty cards.
In Finland, supermarkets pay a levy on the amount of plastic bags used, with the proceeds funding recycling.
Germany has been making advances in recycling for years.
In 1991, store chains there were ordered to pay a levy to a recycling company, in return displaying the Gruner Punkt (green dot) on their products.
Plastic bags have to be bought at the checkout for about 30p, though environmentally-friendly shoppers prefer cloth or wicker bags.
The Dutch are keen on recycling their carrier bags.
They incinerate the bags in accordance with strict environmental rules and use the resulting energy to heat hospitals.
Other states, such as Portugal and Greece, are, like Ireland, laggards in the recycling stakes.
For members of the BPF, any tax on carrier bags is sure to be bad news.
But environmental groups feel that they are absolutely the way to go - setting up the way for a radical clash of objectives in the years ahead.
In fact, for Mr Childs at Friends of the Earth, taxing plastic bags barely begins to scratch the surface of the problem - which in Britain is huge, but largely hidden from our daily sight, just as we tuck those bags away in kitchen cupboards and drawers.
The problem is this: by 2020, according to an EU Directive that the UK has agreed to, we must only send one-third of our waste to landfill.
That means either recycling or incinerating the other two-thirds (or, since landfill space is running out, especially in the south-east, even more).
But incinerators are unpopular, at least with the people who have to live near them.
So the answer is to recycle.
And Britons do far too little of that.
'Our fear is that governments put forward ideas for problems which are high-profile, but aren't part of a decent waste recycling strategy,' said Mr Childs.
'The Irish, we hear, want to burn all their waste to meet the 2020 Directive - so we think that this plastax is more like a diversion from what needs to be done, and from their dirty waste disposal schemes.
'And if you look at how much it would actually cost to introduce here - you would have loads of civil service time taken up with consulting with shops, and then drafting legislation, and then with chasing shops to see how many plastic bags had been sold.'
The plastax might actually turn out to be a profitable scheme for unscrupulous shopkeepers - which will keep the Irish Customs & Excise on its mettle.
So what is the real solution?
Friends of the Earth say it is much closer to home than the checkouts: 'Ensure that every household has access to a quality doorstep recycling scheme.'
At present we recycle 11 per cent of our household waste.
While that has increased from 8 per cent a few years ago, it is still a long way from the 66 per cent needed.
'Without decent recycling facilities, people across the UK will continue living next door to polluting incinerators and filthy landfills,' says Mr Childs.
'Then you could charge people for the household waste that they don't recycle.
That has been introduced in the US and Canada and has been very effective in getting people to cut down on their rubbish.
It encourages people to think more before they buy stuff with lots of packaging.
That's what we really need in this culture.'
