 Lesley Monk, a 51-year-old from Burnley, explains to Mark MacKenzie why she and her team of huskies are going flat out to conquer the wastes of Alaska.
While you are reading this, Lesley Monk is taking her dogs for a walk.
Sixteen of them in fact, and not just for a quick once-round-the-park.
All being well, the 51-year-old personal trainer from Lancashire is now one day into an 1,100- mile trek across the frozen Alaskan wilderness, the only British competitor in this year's Iditarod, the most demanding dog-sled race on earth.
While the winner of an event billed as 'The Last Great Race in the Last Great Place' will be sipping victory champagne in front of a roaring fire inside of 10 days, Lesley and the other 67 mushers can expect several weeks on the trail, which will push them to the limits of their endurance.
Polar bears, fragile river-ice and temperatures regularly below -60C are just some of the optional extras on a tour itinerary that requires sleep on the move as well as hours spent massaging weary canine shoulders and feet.
The race takes its name from the village of Iditarod, one of 26 checkpoints along the way as competitors race from Anchorage in the east of the state to Nome in the west, a rerun of an historic journey.
In 1925, a Nome doctor wired Anchorage pleading for medicine for an outbreak of diptheria.
With no other transport available, teams of mushers transported the serum in a dramatic relay across the frozen tundra.
The patient was saved and, conveniently for the logo writers, the legend was born.
None of which explains how, for the third time in 14 years, a former hairdresser with a dysfunctional lung finds herself racing some of the hardiest backwoodsmen in North America across their own back yard.
Lesley's first encounter with a husky, Alaska's working dog, was with one owned by a friend she was visiting in New York in the mid-Eighties.
'In England, we were living on a farm in a highly touristy area,' she explains, 'On holiday, we were greeted by this gentle dog that looked incredibly fierce.'
Deciding huskies were an excellent way to dissuade tourists from wandering up their drive, Lesley and her husband, Roy, tracked down a breeder in Britain.
'The breeder explained the husky was a working dog, and only let me take one away on condition that I worked it.
Three times a week, I would drive to the outskirts of Leeds and run the dog with a team behind a cart.'
The Monks' obsession with the highly intelligent breed saw their canine family swell to 20 and eventually led them to Alaska and, via smaller qualifying races, to Lesley's first Iditarod in 1988.
'I was a total rookie and was pretty overwhelmed by the whole thing,' she says.
'I had one absolute dread, that I'd finish last and be out there in the wilderness all on my own.'
Which is precisely what happened.
Nineteen days after leaving Anchorage, having struggled to cope with the pace and physical demands of the race, Lesley crossed the finish line to claim the Red Lantern, the wooden spoon.
'I was devastated to finish so far back and I loathe talking about getting the Red Lantern.
But with hindsight it was the best thing that could have happened, because now on the trail, there are very few things that phase me.'
Her disappointment over her 1988 placing emphasises the fiercely competitive nature of the event.
Lesley's next outing was in 1990, when she was forced to scratch after her sled and team went through thin ice attempting a river crossing.
'The water was only thigh deep, but my sled sank and the dogs were in the water, getting tangled up in their gang lines.
The problem was compounded by the following teams, who were jumping over us to get across and were getting tangled themselves.'
While Lesley insists there is camaraderie between the mushers, competitors will only come to another's aid if a situation is life-threatening.
Given that leading racers have also been known to confuse the chasing pack by removing trail markers as they pass, this clearly isn't the London Marathon.
But then $50,000 (35,000) in prize money is a hefty sum in outback Alaska.
And bearing in mind that only four of this year's field are of Alaskan descent, $50,000, it seems, is a lot money everywhere else.
The Iditarod was first raced competitively in 1974, when it was won by Dick Wilmarth in 20 days.
Around a dozen dogs died through exhaustion, the result of poor nutrition.
Races since have had huge teams of vets, and the death rate has fallen to below four dogs per thousand.
While the Humane Society of the US have been trying to get the race banned for many years, race vets rightly contend that the death rate is about equal to that in a sedentary canine population.
And animal welfare has certainly progressed from centuries past, when native Alaskans tethered husky bitches in woodland to mate with local wolves.
If the wolf chose to mate with, rather than eat, his blind date, the outcome would be a litter of working dogs with a wild toughness.
'All the attention is focused on the dogs and nobody really cares about you,' Lesley explains.
'The rules state that the sled must have the capacity to carry an injured dog under cover, as well as demanding one compulsory 24-hour rest and two eight-hour breaks at checkpoints.
These are on top of the camp breaks we take out on the trail.
People who don't know these animals have no idea what they are capable of.
Their speed and stamina are breathtaking, and if you get the right balance of personalities in your team, you can really fly.'
While the demands on the dogs are immense, the demands on the mushers are equally daunting.
'If the team is down for eight hours, the dogs are resting, but you're constantly working, rubbing ointment into cuts on feet, massaging joints, preparing food,' says Lesley.
'When you set off, you're exhausted and the dogs want to run like the wind.'
And the treats in store back on the trail are many.
Mushers need tremendous aerobic fitness to be able to scoot, skateboard style, with one leg on the sled for long distances.
Should conditions become sticky, scooting turns to old-fashioned running to maintain the most prized weapon in the musher's armoury, momentum.
Standing still for extended periods also places tremendous strain on the arms and back, and should you take your eye off the trail at the wrong moment, you could wind up with a smack in the chops from an overhanging branch.
And unless your screams carry across miles of wilderness, you're in trouble.
Yet despite the hazards, Lesley is undaunted.
'I keep going back because I love it,' she says.
Shopping, sure, but culture?
Can this Gulf state offer anything other than golf courses and gold souks?
Wake up to a different view.
It is early in the morning.
I look out of the window and see below me the clear, calm turquoise waters of the Gulf.
Above me, the sky is already pale blue.
Between the turquoise and the pale blue, a haze of mother of pearl wreaths the city that stretches out from the shore in the pale, silky colours of an expensive negligee.
The spires and towers of Dubai's astonishing architecture stretch up out of the mist like some fantastic palace from the Arabian Nights.
Even what I later discover is an industrial installation looks like a fairytale fortress in this light.
It's difficult to believe that it won't melt away, like a mirage, or a vision.
Vision.
It's a key word here.
Modern Dubai exists, you will be told, thanks to the vision of Sheikh Rashid bin Saeed Al Maktoum, the father of the present ruler, Sheikh Maktoum.
His farsightedness created a Gulf state that is no longer dependent on the profits from oil but is a world centre of business and trade.
Dubai's visions come on a grand scale and they take physical shape with remarkable speed.
You want two man-made islands shaped like palm trees, each with 40 miles of coastline, housing 40 hotels, 2,000 luxury villas, etc, etc, etc?
Construction begins next year.
You want to turn a shopping mall into an entire city, complete with parks, children's playgrounds, hotels and apartments?
Consider it done.
My vantage point for this dawn view of the city is a 361 metre (1,184 feet) high hotel, shaped like a boat and looking like a spinnaker.
It rises from the sea on a man-made island, while a second hotel, shaped like a cresting silver breaker, lies like a bow wave beneath it.
This is the seven-star Burj Al Arab.
Completed only three years ago, it is already an icon.
It deserves iconic status, I think.
It's a beautiful building, almost organic in feel once you are inside, with its layers of floors rising up, tier upon tier, like the interior of a beehive or a strange seed pod.
At the top is what looks from a distance like a glass envelope, the Al Muntaha restaurant, with its stunning views across the Gulf, while below the hotel, accessed by a 'submarine ride' lift, is the Al Mahara seafood restaurant, whose walls encase vast aquaria.
To say that the interior of the Burj is lavishly exotic is like saying that Coco Chanel designed the odd suit.
It is quite startlingly luxurious.
There are no rooms, only suites, of which mine was a very lowly variety.
It was about as big as my Edwardian terraced house (just a one-bedroom suite, you understand).
The bathroom toiletries are Herms and you get given bottles and bottles of the stuff.
(You can tell who's been staying at the Burj: they trail around in a cloud of 24 Faubourg.)
Everything is done by remote control, including summoning the butler.
Ours was called Francis, and he carefully explained how to use the interactive controls to open and close the curtains and so on.
Of course, I forgot all this the minute he left the room and spent about half an hour trying to open the living-room curtains.
Eventually, I retired upstairs to bed to find that I'd opened the bedroom curtains instead.
The bedroom was so far away (up an impressive curved marble staircase, past a gigantic chandelier) that I couldn't hear the hum of the mechanism.
The Burj was a fabulous experience.
I'm ashamed to say that I felt a tiny twinge of guilty relief when I transferred to the Jumeirah Beach Hotel.
This is the one that looks like a cresting silver wave and it's a very jolly place, full of very jolly families doing very jolly beach holiday things.
The beach waiters even offer to clean your sunglasses for you and there is not a lager lout within 1000 miles.
(As for the curtains, they are operated by the usual pulley mechanism.)
Bliss.
It is early in the morning.
The sun is rising vast and red through the murk of an incipient sandstorm.
I'm on my way to the Oasis stables, near the Nad Al Sheba racecourse.
Suddenly, on the outskirts of this City of Gold, I see the ancient currency of Arabia making its majestic way across the sands.
Camels.
Scores of them, some ridden by tiny boys, are heading for the camel racetrack, a circuit so vast I cannot see the other side or even each end.
(When the race is in progress, the spectators have to follow it in a flotilla of four-wheel- drives.)
We halt as the camel caravans cross the road ahead with that distinctive swaying camel gait.
But if these are the sultans of swing, the thoroughbreds at Oasis are the sheikhs of the sport of kings, aristocrats whose bloodlines are as ancient as their owners'.
The Oasis stables are part of the Godolphin racing empire, owned by the Maktoum brothers, Sheikh Rashid's sons.
Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum is the prime mover in the enterprise, making history in the Nineties by overwintering his British-bred horses in Dubai and winning a string of classic victories.
We are shown around the stables by trainer Nick Robb.
Nick is a world expert on racehorses, but if he ever decided on an alternative career, he would make a good living as a tour guide.
He's a natural.
His audience is rapt as he outlines the science that goes into making a horse run from A to B in the fastest possible time.
At the end of the stables tour, we are taken to the racetrack to see the grandstand and tour the jockeys' quarters and the stewards' room.
This is where the Dubai World Cup, the world's richest horse race, will be run on 23 March.
Entry to race meetings is free, and there's no gambling.
But who needs a bet when you can watch the result of centuries of Arab equine expertise come thundering down the track?
It is early in the morning.
A falcon hangs in the sky high above the desert before stooping in a heart-stopping dive for its reward.
Here and there, Arabian oryx nibble the shrubby plants that form defiant grey mats in the sand.
I bend down and rub the leaves between my fingers.
To my English gardening hands they feel bereft of any moisture or goodness.
But Mitch, our South African field guide, assures me that the oryx thrive on their diet and points to where tiny yellow flowers have bloomed, a response to a short-lived shower the night before.
Falconry is an Arab tradition: the birds are pictured on the Dubai currency, the dirham.
In his book Arabian Sands, about Oman and the Empty Quarter, the explorer Wilfred Thesiger describes hunting bustard with peregrine falcons on camelback, accompanied by a pack of salukis.
He tells how an Arab falconer could have a bird ready to hunt in a fortnight to three weeks.
At the Al Maha, they have both peregrine and saker falcons and the birds are fed on quail bought from the supermarket.
'The guests don't really want to see things being killed,' Mitch says drily.
Al Maha means 'oryx' and the resort is another vision made reality.
Set in 10 square miles of desert nature reserve, it is designed to resemble a Bedouin encampment.
Even the oryx have appeared as if by the wave of a wand: reintroduced after being hunted to extinction.
(Thesiger doesn't like the term Bedouin; he says it's a double plural and the correct term is Bedu.
He and his 'Bedu', of course, accounted for quite a few oryx.)
The general manager, Tony Williams, is a South African ecologist who believes, refreshingly, that the secret of running a successful hotel is good manners.
'You should treat people as if they were a guest in your house,' he says.
Each guest chalet is arranged to give maximum privacy, with its own deck and plunge pool.
The interiors are luxurious, but they are as understated as the Burj Al Arab is spectacular.
There's no Harrods-on-ecstasy glitz here, but a wooden easel in the corner, complete with paper and pastels.
It would be wrong to imply that you don't receive a warm welcome elsewhere in Dubai.
At all the hotels, regardless of their architectural idiosyncrasies, there is smiling courtesy.
Even in the Emirates Towers Hotel, a tall, sharp pencil of a building that seems to encapsulate in glass and steel Dubai's go-getting, onward-thrusting character, the service is unfailingly friendly.
However and I'm sorry to labour the Arabian Nights analogy there is something magical about the Al Maha.
It has something to do with the pace of life, the change of focus.
Apparently, many people come here for only one or two nights.
I was told, before I came, that I wouldn't want to spend more than a night as 'there is nothing to do'.
I easily could have spent a week at Al Maha.
Hell, I could have spent a year.
Before dinner, I sat on the terrace and watched dusk fall over the desert.
The dry fragrance of frankincense, from an incense burner nearby, lingered on the warm, still night air.
If only Herms could capture that and put it in a bottle.
