 At present I am trying to write my first serious novel, a process that seems to involve endless displacement activity, and I find that if I switch The Bill on at 9am on UK Gold, I am all too likely to be still watching hours later as the schedule swings its way through hospital emergency rooms and Australian soaps that would have sent me screaming from the room when they were first screened but that now exert a compelling 'must see what happens next' force on me.
If you watch too much daytime television, you soon become aware that the commercials in the advertising breaks are aimed very much at people who, to say the least, are likely to have trouble with their finances.
There are ads for personal-injury lawyers encouraging various mugwumps to try and claim compo for 'accidents' that they've supposedly had.
There are loads of companies offering loans, encouraging other mugwumps to borrow huge sums of money to buy essential items like conservatory extensions for their 10th-floor council flats or their own rocket or trampoline lessons for their cat.
Another type of ad aimed at the financially challenged is for firms with names such as Yes, Car Credit, which offer to provide newish cars for people who absolutely nobody else will sell cars to (and, let's face it, car salesmen are not really that choosy); there's one interesting feature of these particular commercials - all the blokes in them have big fat wives; I guess that they know their market and the only fantasy aspect is connected with the cars.
And finally in every break there are several adverts from companies with names such as Baines & Ernst that offer to combine all the debts that you've acquired from making stupid purchases, paying way too much for a T-reg Vauxhall Astra and trying to sue gravity for making you fall over, into one single loan that you owe them rather than your several hundred creditors.
However, an interesting sideline that these companies provide is that they also offer to combine all your moral debts into one big moral debt that you owe them.
So now I have to drive Baines and Ernst to the airport every week, I have to clean their carpet and I must never ever look at another woman except Baines and Ernst.
I also have to apologise to them for stopping this column for a while.
While doing press promotion for my new collection of short stories, which was released in August, I would tell journalists interviewing me that, with my first collection of stories, Barcelona Plates, selling over 50,000 copies and this new one, The Dog Catcher, doing over 15,000 in hardback in six weeks, I was the most successful short-story writer in Britain since the war.
Now, amazingly, it turns out that this might actually be true!
I never expected that.
Of course, the fact is that these numbers that I have been bragging about would be considered totally piddling in any other field of the media that I've been involved in, but in publishing these numbers denote a major smash hit, partly because very few people buy collections of short stories.
I think I have finally found the artistic field that I should be in, a field where tiny numbers still denote huge success, where the minuscule number of twisted, supercilious malcontents who find me funny can make a gigantic difference to the percentages of sales figures.
Once I might have sneered at this, but my sense now, which has been arrived at over years of an up-and-down showbusiness career, is that success is success, and whatever denotes success makes you feel much better and if you are feeling good about yourself that feeling is reflected in numerous ways.
I remember years ago that I visited a restaurant in Covent Garden with Lenny Henry.
We had just done a TV show together called OTT which had caused a big furore and had been a disaster so big that I'd returned from Birmingham where the show was made with somebody else's tail between my legs.
This restaurant we went to made a big deal of its visitors' book, which they nagged me into signing.
A few years later I happened to revisit this place at a time when I had my own hit television series and was feeling on top of the world with a string of awards and massive viewing figures.
Flipping back through the pages of the restaurant's visitors' book, I was able to compare my signatures, then and now.
Looking back at the first it was tiny, crabbed, tentative and spidery reflecting my feeble doubting inner state, while my second autograph was bold and flowing, taking up half a page, obviously full of confidence and self-belief.
Also, for some reason, on my first visit to the restaurant I had been calling myself 'Les Dennis'.
I don't know why.
Anyway, because I am such a big hit as an author, I will be leaving this column for a while to try and write that Booker-losing novel.
I think it's a good time to leave newspaper writing for a while, it's not like there's anything much going on in the world to write about.
Sometimes, you really have to scratch your head a bit.
The economic data have signalled generally upbeat news.
Industrial surveys are consistently pointing to recovery, even if actual growth in the second half of 2001 was rather disappointing.
Yet the financial markets remain very sceptical, with equities lower relative to the end of last year.
Meanwhile, Messrs Greenspan and George are prepared only to be cautiously optimistic.
Yes, the worst may now be behind us.
But, no, there can be no guarantees of a rapid return to buoyant - and, perhaps, more importantly - sustainable economic growth.
What should we make of these cross currents?
There are one or two reasonably straightforward conclusions.
First, it's pretty clear, even with a recovery, there is no immediate risk of a return to higher interest rates.
If there are doubts about the sustainability of economic growth, it would be a bit odd to take the risk of raising interest rates only to be blamed for creating a subsequent 'double-dip'.
Knee-jerk financial market reactions that point to higher interest rates at the first sign of recovery should, therefore, be dismissed.
Second, if the recovery is ultimately constrained, the inflationary outlook should be subdued for a prolonged period of time.
Indeed, to the extent that activity levels remain below where they should be - either because unemployment is too high or because there's plenty of spare capacity - there's a good chance that inflation may undershoot central bank targets.
This leads to some interesting results.
At the Bank of England, for example, the corridors are still echoing more to the sound of cooing doves than screeching hawks.
Underneath all of this, however, is an issue about recession and recovery.
If the recession is shallow, what does this say about the subsequent recovery?
This is a key question for policy makers today.
The downswing through the course of 2001 proved to be relatively mild.
Indeed, as Alan Greenspan said in his testimony before Congress last week, 'the recuperative powers of the US economy ... have been remarkable'.
Clearly, Mr Greenspan is hopeful that the worst is now over and, certainly from a data perspective, there has been plenty of good news recently.
Yet he is never one to have his cake and eat it.
Although the economy did not perform as badly as feared in the second half of last year, the US Federal Reserve chairman was quick to emphasise that 'an array of influences unique to this business cycle ... seems likely to moderate the speed of the anticipated recovery'.
Of course, these words simply emphasise that Mr Greenspan is a master of the 'on the one hand, on the other hand' approach beloved of so many economists.
Nevertheless, he has good reasons to remain concerned about the medium-term outlook, irrespective of the recent signs of economic improvement.
Here's a little story for you.
A country has just been through a prolonged boom in economic activity.
Asset prices have risen rapidly, far outstripping gains in indebtedness, either for consumers or for companies.
The asset price bubble eventually bursts.
There are fears of a collapse in economic activity yet, initially, these fears prove to be unfounded.
Certainly, growth slows down but, unlike other countries, there is no significant contraction in economic activity.
Indeed, on the so-called 'technical definition' (two successive quarters of declining GDP), recession is avoided.
Meanwhile, although asset prices come down sharply, consumers continue to spend rather than save.
Now, you're probably thinking that this is the US story over the past year or so - and, of course, you'd be absolutely right.
Consumers have carried on spending.
The economy has held up better than expected, continuing to outperform the likes of Germany and Japan (and, for that matter, the UK in the final quarter of last year).
And the dollar has remained strong, suggesting an international vote of confidence in all things American.
Unfortunately, however, exactly the same observations could have been made about Japan at the beginning of the 1990s.
The Japanese bubble burst at the end of 1989.
Equity prices began their relentless decline, followed by land prices a year and a half later.
The initial weakness in asset prices didn't seem to do too much damage.
True, the economy began to slow down relative to the stellar performance seen at the end of the 1980s.
However, relative to the performance of other countries, Japan continued to do well.
In 1990, Japan saw 5.3 per cent growth compared with 1.8 per cent in the US and 0.8 per cent in the UK.
In 1991, growth in Japan slowed to 3.1 per cent but, in the same year, GDP fell 0.5 per cent in the US and by 1.4 per cent in the UK.
Meanwhile, the yen began a steady appreciation.
I would not want to suggest that the US is about to go down Japan's path.
There are lots of differences - in economic structure, in the desire for profit, in the flexibility of the workforce, in the pace of productivity growth.
These imply that America is a lot better placed to deal with the consequences of a sustained decline in asset prices.
Nevertheless, Japan's experience does suggest that we should be careful in concluding too much from the initial stages of a decline in asset prices.
The US may still be outperforming the rest of the world for the time being.
But can we really be sure that this story will continue in the years ahead?
This question boils down to an issue about imbalances, factors that might constrain the ability of an economy to grow over the medium term.
One way to think about this is to regard recession as unpleasant cleansing experiences - a bit like taking a cold shower with a lump of carbolic soap.
The process might not be very pleasant but at least you come out more hygienic, if not smelling of roses.
Has the US been through this cleansing experience?
To date, the answer is probably 'no'.
The current account deficit is large and is likely to increase even further in the short term if the economy continues to rebound.
Consumers have yet to increase their savings even with a major decline in asset values.
Profits have seen the biggest decline in the post-war period and, to date, have shown no transparent signs of a rebound (indeed, transparency and profits have not exactly been obvious bedfellows recently).
Basically, we are not out of the woods yet.
If anything, financial market indicators are pointing to more signs of distress.
Risky assets, like equities, have fallen in value relative to 'safer' investments like government bonds and cash.
Banks continue to limit lending to the corporate sector.
The commercial paper market has dried up.
These factors all suggest that the current recovery may fade later in the year.
The Fed's shot in the arm last year may have given the US economy enough strength for a short sprint forward but America's reputation as a long- distance runner may be fading.
Pain de campagne, sourdoughs, baguettes, ciabatta and exotic loaves incorporating everything from carrot to olives, spinach to sun-dried tomato.
The supermarkets' bakery shelves are chock-a-block, and judging by the mind-boggling variety on offer, real bread seems to be enjoying a massive revival in Britain.
But has good, traditionally made bread really made a comeback?
The suggestion prompts Tom Jaine, former editor of the Good Food Guide and author of Making Bread At Home (Cassell, 9.99), to froth like over-yeasted dough.
'Most of the bread that masquerades as real isn't real at all.
In a tiny way, it is different from the supermarket bread of 10 years ago, but it's no better.
I've just eaten a sunflower-seed loaf from Duchy Originals that was every bit as nasty as mass-produced bread.
Supermarket sourdoughs made ostensibly with natural leavens are as insubstantial and characterless as the ones they used to make with yeast.'
Jaine insists that 'the move to real bread is actually restricted to a minute proportion of the London middle class'.
Certainly, a fine crop of good bread shops has appeared in the capital in the past few years, mainly in the posher postal districts.
The haute couture pinnacle of real bread is represented by Poilne.
The signature bread produced from the wood-fired stoves of its Belgravia bakery (the only Poilne outlet outside Paris) is a tremendous sourdough loaf of close texture and wonderful, complex flavour.
This bread is famously the favourite crust of de Niro, Bacall and Deneuve - but don't let that put you off, or the fact that a loaf costs around 6.
Weighing the best part of 2kg, it will last most families for a week or more.
Another welcome French newcomer is the Paul bakery in Covent Garden, the first English branch of a chain with 250 outlets in France.
The Baker & Spice bakery in South Kensington produces equally superb bread, which can also be bought at branches of Konditor & Cook.
If you see their San Francisco sourdough or potato-and- rosemary bread, snap it up before someone else does.
The three branches of de Gustibus sell 20 fine breads.
Black Forest rye and roasted onion rye are particularly worth seeking out.
London's latest and coolest are the two Exeter Street Bakery shops in Kensington and Covent Garden selling Italian breads and pizzas perfected by the restaurateur who brought Joe Allen over here.
Then there's the 10 branches of Maison Blanc...
But where does this leave real- bread addicts who live outside London?
Sainsbury's claims to be making the right stuff.
As part of its Taste the Difference range, two-thirds of Sainsbury's 300 stores now stock a range of speciality breads.
Not a bad effort, you think at first.
The French Country Loaf certainly looks the part, but the crust was too thin and the crumb was too open-textured.
Worse still, it was so salty that we ended up throwing it out.
Sainsbury's raisin-and-rosemary loaf is vast for 1.99, but the raisins proved to be few and far between.
A seed-and-honey loaf was OK for toasting.
One grain of comfort for non-metropolitan loaf-lovers is mail order.
The Village Bakery will ship from its Cumbrian ovens any order for a flat rate of 4.95.
You can choose from 17 breads, all baked in a wood- fired oven, including a natural-leaven campagne and a Russian sourdough called Rossisky.
