 Now the BBC has embraced 'narrowcasting' with its new channels, Boyd Tonkin asks if TV will ever again surprise us with the unexpected.
On Saturday, the BBC's new cultural channel finally shed the dowdy chrysalis of Knowledge to emerge as a gaudy butterfly known as 'Four'.
Not all of us can stick around to watch the metamorphosis.
After a first night of joint transmission with BBC 2, Four's six hours per day of arts, ideas and reportage has reverted to the digital platforms still closed to the half of British households who can only receive terrestrial fare.
Roly Keating, the corporation's doyen of arts who became Four's first controller in the new year, will be hoping to make his mark in a blaze of light glory.
For the BBC, a lot rides on the reception of Four.
Greg Dyke and his satraps gaze nervously towards the expiry of their current Charter in 2006.
The long-planned national switch-over from analogue to digital television sets proceeds at more of a crawl than a gallop.
To put it bluntly, Four not only has to recruit a loyal core of arts addicts and documentary demons; it must also help to persuade opinion-shifters in politics and the media that the BBC licence fee remains the only defensible form of poll-tax in 700 years of British history.
Four has won over Downing Street without too much of a battle.
The Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell green-lighted it last autumn, along with the BBC's two digital children's channels.
However, backstage ructions from commercial competitors have delayed approval for the corporation's revamped youth service, BBC Three.
It's no secret that the Beeb's rivals - above all, Rupert Murdoch - keenly resent the spectacle of licence-funded empire-building a dozen years after the advent of Sky - it seems to presage the secular decline of public-service broadcasting.
With a clever touch of bathos, Four slid down the slipway at the weekend not with some operatic blockbuster but a Dadaist squib: a film about the artist Michael Landy, who trashed his 7,000 possessions in the window of a defunct West End store.
It bore the title The Man who Destroyed Everything.
As far as the BBC goes, Rupert Murdoch would wish for no other epitaph.
The details of Four so far announced show why he should never get his way.
To be sure, some merely fill the glaring holes left by the makeover of BBC 2 into a cookery-and-comedy location for 35-year-olds: a weekly books programme, The Readers and Writers Roadshow, for instance, or the reliably left-field Storyville documentary strand, and an 8pm news slot with a global remit.
Other promised delights keep up the grand tradition of 'gala television': Peter Brook's Hamlet from Paris; Romanian diva Angela Gheorghiu in concert; or the Africa Now music festival staged in a soccer stadium in Senegal.
Yet we already have Artsworld and Performance channels to do the first-night folderol.
Behind the handsome limbs, Four hopes to offer a skeleton of inquiry and debate in features such as the ideas-driven Talk Show with Andrew Marr.
Let's hope that such regular articulations allow the channel to act more like a coherent creature than a Frankenstein's monster of scavenged art-parts.
As it happens, Mary Shelley's stroke of inspiration on the shores of Lake Geneva has loomed large in the publicity for Four.
Frequent trailers have deployed the notion of the genius loci to label the new outfit as 'a place to think'.
All the hype agrees that this must be a special location, 'satisfyingly different' from mainstream TV - a haven for seekers and mavericks.
Now, who (apart from Mr Murdoch) could possibly object to that?
Well, you can welcome the channel's content while still lamenting the drift towards segmentation and fragmentation that its coming represents.
These days, we are all the playthings of demography, our tastes ticketed and bracketed by media puppet-masters who long to give us exactly what they know we want - and nothing less, or more.
'Niche' culture permits providers to deliver targeted audiences to advertisers with enough exactitude to make sure that a twentysomething urban clubber seldom has to contemplate an ad for a DIY greenhouse or a stair-lift.
Filterers and packagers devote their time and skill to guaranteeing that we never run across any item that surprises or intrigues us.
If it didn't sound too much like the sort of pompous Restoration tragedy that not even Four would deign to broadcast, you might call this trend the Death of Serendipity.
Of course, the BBC has no fickle advertisers to please (just fickle politicians).
So it doesn't need to play the demographic game of divide-and-lure in quite so crude a fashion.
The chief constituency of Four ought to consist of self-selecting minorities convened by a passion - whether for qawwali music or quantum theory - rather than by the brute parameters of region, age or class.
Always remember that a large majority of affluent folk take their leisure in entirely populist forms: last week, we learned that a third of Chelsea ticket-holders earn more than 50,000 per year.
Meanwhile, Keating and colleagues vow that BBC 2 in particular will not treat the birth of Four as a pretext for an even deeper plunge into gardening-and-game-show territory.
We shall see.
In 'narrowcasting' ventures such as Four, there's a paradox at work that deserves more attention than it gets.
Since the Sixties, many of the most exciting pulses of innovation across a spread of cultural forms have come from a push towards fusion and hybridity.
Creatively confused artists have sought to abolish the distance between lite and popular styles, 'highbrow' and 'lowbrow' registers, learned and vernacular traditions.
Look at some of BBC Four's early performance slots, and you'll spot this force in progress: Bjrk sings at Covent Garden; Fidelio comes live from a Birmingham big top; an opera company mounts a (successful) search for new divas in the townships of South Africa.
Tune in to the liveliest American TV (so often the benchmark for canny British broadcasters), and this pattern stares you in the face.
Buffy the Vampire Slayer samples 300 years of Gothic visual and literary style, and places a self-conscious embodiment of European high culture (Giles) at its heart; Seinfeld stages his deadpan, free-form postmodern jests; The Simpsons import the dynamics of Eugene O'Neill and Arthur Miller into the animated comic-strip.
Yet, while makers of culture everywhere cross boundaries and blur distinctions, its marketers labour to reinforce them.
Audiences are sliced and sorted into ever thinner bands.
With the birth of CBeebies, even the under-fives have their own channel.
Internet-providers track your path through the web in order to deliver the sites your record shows (or seems to show) you want.
Newspapers dream of delivering the online 'Daily Me', pre-edited according to your preferences.
A smart box called the TiVo will not merely record favourite TV shows but, when it knows you well enough, anticipate your viewing choice as well.
Even in the reliably behind-the-beat book trade, publishers and retailers flog their wares under the unvarying rubric, 'If you liked X, you'll love Y'.
But my haphazard education in the arts (like millions of others') came about because I stumbled without signposts across 'Z' and decided I should spend more time in that place.
Serendipity - the book picked up by accident, the film at first watched reluctantly, the magical snatch of music overheard - can shape the lifelong experience of those blessed with such happy accidents.
For a brief period, so one broadcasting fable goes, the single-channel BBC TV embodied this ideal of diversity-in-unity.
Plenty of veterans recall it as history, while many younger programme-makers dismiss it as pure myth.
One evening sometime in the early Sixties, according to this story, the loyal BBC-watcher might have grazed through an arts magazine, some serious current affairs, a gritty commissioned drama, half an hour of classic Tony Hancock comedy, a satirical blast of That was the Week that Was, and (if they were especially lucky) the sight of A J P Taylor explaining the origins of the Great War with only a bow-tie for special effects.
Today's brash moguls of Reality TV (notably, Peter Bazalgette) mock this memory as a nostalgic fabrication.
They point out, with some justice, that BBC TV in its 'Golden Age' was where the decrepit remnants of British music-hall went to die, in agony - for the viewers.
Yet, as William Blake wrote, 'A truth that's told with bad intent/ Beats all the lies you can invent'.
The Bazalgettes grow fat on fragmentation.
They don't want to see a truly varied TV schedule in operation again.
So they deny that it ever existed.
In their perspective, only the Big Brothers, Weakest Links and Pop Idols can be allowed the prime-time honour of shaping the national chat.
How soon before Will Young looks old?
On the other hand, Puccini and Pavarotti still live in the affections of millions because some inspired producer trampled the barriers and decided to fanfare Italia 90 with 'Nessun Dorma'.
Serendipity needs a little shove, at times.
And the BBC brass need to recall that one of their real triumphs in the past decade has been a bits-and-bobs radio station that flourished despite - or, perhaps, because of - a higgledy-piggledy brief: Five Live.
What will the BBC team choose for this summer's transmissions from Japan and South Korea?
Madame Butterfly might sound a trifle too corny.
Still, some of us can hope that, one fine day, a television vessel freighted with a richly varied cargo will sail back into the harbour of our lives.
Motorists who have just passed their driving test may be subject to tougher drink-drive and speeding laws under plans being considered by the Government.
Lower blood-alcohol levels and reduced speed limits were two of 18 possible options in a consultation paper about novice drivers published yesterday.
Other options for new drivers include restrictions on night-time driving, making them drive smaller-engined vehicles, and the compulsory display of 'P' - provisional - plates for six or 12 months after passing the test.
Compulsory professional tuition for learners and accompanying drivers, skid and motorway training, and the introduction of a probationary licence code for the first two years are also being considered.
Andrew Howard, the AA's head of road safety policy, welcomed the paper but added: 'Some of the suggestions in the consultation paper are impractical and unenforceable.'
The AA believes the introduction of P plates would do little to improve safety and it warns that limiting the time when young drivers may drive is likely to be impractical.
So long, bricks and mortar.
Cheaper, greener options are available.
Little boxes made of ticky tacky... it may have been a good refrain and a fair indictment of a nation's love of bricks and mortar, but today's house builders are challenging the stereotype by using more inventive materials and building methods at both ends of the eco spectrum.
Bellway Homes is nearing completion on The Hamsterley, a Georgian-style polystyrene kit house which John Watson, their chief executive, describes as 'a glamorous prefab that is here to stay'.
He adds: 'We like to explore new technologies.
This is a potential revolution in British housing and in building this house, the first of its kind in the country, we are demonstrating the possibilities from this unique design through to delivery.'
The five-bedroom property is the first traditional- look, factory-built sectional house made of polystyrene and steel for sale in the UK.
Its lightweight steel frame, clad externally with light but extremely strong insulating panels, makes it highly energy-efficient.
The polystyrene house may have an SAP (standard assessment procedures) rating of 100 per cent, but some builders prefer greener materials.
Richard Scales and Ralph Carpenter of Modece Architects worked on a hemp house in Haverhill, Suffolk and have mixed views on the use of polystyrene.
Mr Scales says: 'There are some benefits, because it's energy efficient, but it's not green.
It's using material derived from oil, which is unsustainable because fossil fuel will one day run out.'
The material used to create the hemp house will never run out if the project takes off.
Ralph Carpenter's inspiration came from a visit to France, where he first saw hemp being used in construction.
He convinced Suffolk Housing Society and St Edmundsbury council to lead a trial to discover whether hemp is a suitable building material.
The hemp houses have been built beside traditional brick-and-block constructions, and insulation, soundproofing, structural ability, resistance to moisture and condensation will be monitored to make comparisons.
Encouragingly for architects such as Mr Scales, large-scale developers are interested in the hemp house, but he accepts the use of greener materials on a mass scale may take time.
'Most of the industry is locked into bricks and blocks, because that's the way their operatives are used to working and understand.
If you start using different materials then that jacks the price up as they can't do it without thinking, which seems to cost more.'
Ultimately the hemp project may revive a crop that used to be grown extensively in Britain, but it should be pointed out that, unlike its notorious cousin, hemp used in construction has no hallucinatory qualities.
Steve Clarke, Suffolk Housing Society's chief executive, says: 'We are hoping that it will make a significant contribution to finding a more environmentally friendly way to create new homes.'
At present, innovative building projects inevitably cost more than traditional methods, but this may change.
Initially the hemp house was considered expensive, although it may prove cheaper in the long term.
One building in north London has proved it is possible to produce a cost-effective construction that is also sustainable.
Number 9 Stock Orchard Street, designed by Sarah Wigglesworth Architects, is partly built with straw bales.
Architects Sarah Wigglesworth and Jeremy Till, who live and work in the house, say: 'The building pays attention, as we believe every building should, to issues of environment.
Materials are chosen for their low embodied energy: straw bales, recycled concrete and sandbags.'
The straw-bale house is a good example of research by design in a project featuring the first approved use of this material in the UK, although there is a growing straw-bale movement in the US, and its benefits are many.
Straw costs 1.50p per bale delivered to central London, is widely available, easy to build with and provides good thermal insulation because it 'breathes'.
The architects installed the bales with friends and family.
Standard practice is to render the bales on both sides, but here the architects have clad the building on the outside with a rain screen.
Having ensured the walls are carefully detailed to keep out vermin and water - 'both things that would otherwise lead to a short life', they add.
'The tension between the roughness of the bales and the sleek exterior of the cling-film sheathing disturbs the normal architectural categories, uniting the slick with the hairy.'
