 You don't actually need computers for special effects, as the Bafta Award ceremony demonstrated on Sunday evening.
As the stars arrived, an unforeseen combination of household chemicals and the worst of English weather added a mildly uncanny detail to the clichs of photographer's flashes and red carpet.
A sebaceous slime appeared beneath the feet of the celebrities, a copious froth which seemed like a manifestation of some otherwise intangible presence, a kind of miasma of ego, perhaps.
I can't have been alone, though, in thinking how much more powerful the scene would have been with a bit of post-production CGI work.
You can easily imagine a Stephen King rationale.
A red carpet haunted by the spirit of a murdered extra decides that it isn't going to let the stars walk all over it anymore - and as the more pernicious characters beam and smirk their way into the ceremony a malevolent ectoplasm swirls towards them across the surface, oozing upwards over the Manolo Blahniks and Versace dresses to vandalise their glamour.
The effect might even win an award - given the current popularity of this kind of visual excess.
Certainly the lavish digital effects in Lord of the Rings can't have done that film any harm when it came to handing out the prizes, since without computer-generated imagery - or GGI for short - it would barely have been conceivable as a project.
Altogether there were something like 500 special-effect shots in Lord of the Rings, overlapped so that it was often impossible to tell where real objects stopped and the purely virtual ones began.
.
There are purists who find this depressing - an indication that the long cinematic stand-off between the Lumire school (dedicated to the ethical superiority of unmediated photography) and the followers of Mlis (equally passionate about film's ability to play with time and space like putty) has finally been settled in favour of fantasy.
For such people, digital effects are the cinematic equivalent of genetically modified foods, and the only way for them to guarantee the purity of their diet these days is to go comprehensively organic, refusing to consume anything unless it has come from markets too poor to afford technological adulteration.
Anything from Mali or Iran can usually be counted as safe.
In one respect the Cassandras are right.
The intermingling of real and computer generated is now so sophisticated that it descends to the level of individual particles.
In the film Pearl Harbor, for example, real smoke and its computer-generated equivalent were often used in combination to achieve the required effect.
Elsewhere computer effects are preferred to the real thing because of their biddability.
In Black Hawk Down there was no difficulty in achieving the dust clouds caused by helicopter rotor wash, but it tended to inconvenience the actors, so the ground was dampened before filming and the 'real' effect added later.
The result, of course, was realism - which from the very beginning of cinema has always been a highly artificial substance.
But when it comes to the suggestion that CGI may be fundamentally toxic to the cinematic enterprise, its enemies are on weaker ground.
True, it is currently an overused technology, prone to distract its devotees from humble virtues such as narrative coherence and psychological plausibility.
Reviewing Vidocq - the first film to be made entirely with digital cameras - the Hollywood Reporter offered what has become a fairly familiar coupling.
It was, it declared, 'visually stunning and stunningly inane', a judgement which you might do well to keep on hand for the release of the next Star Wars movie - shot on digital cameras in three months, followed by 18 months of post-production digital tweaking.
But this needn't mean the death of art.
Quite the opposite.
Predictions that sound would destroy cinema, and then that colour would fatally weaken its constitution, eventually proved exaggerated.
All those innovations needed was artists who could use them properly.
And even now there are signs that the most high-minded directors are intrigued by the ability of computers to blur the distinction between our visual and emotional perceptions, to let them write with light.
In The Lady and the Duke, the veteran director Eric Rohmer used CGI to set his historical drama against pastiches of period painting and printmaking, rather than a conventional reconstruction.
Instead of painting out anachronism, he used the technology to paint in period.
Others will come who will make even subtler use of the opportunity to align what they see in their heads with what we all eventually see on the screen.
We are in at the birth, in fact, of the most intensively manipulated cinema we've ever known - and that manipulation will not always be bent solely on making teenagers moan 'awesome'.
The battle is already lost, but in the end there may be no losers.
It would be a pity if celebrations of the Queen's golden jubilee became confused with the debate about the future of the monarchy.
The one looks back in gratitude, the other contemplates the serious issue of how the next head of state and those thereafter should be chosen.
In our private lives we try to avoid muddling up the two things.
We don't say thank you to somebody for a job well done over many years and at the very same ceremony, so to speak, when the presentations are made and the speeches given, loudly discuss whether it couldn't all be done better in the future.
We leave that for another day.
Let us cast our minds back 50 years.
On 6 February 1952, King George VI died in his sleep.
His valet discovered the body at 7.30am.
It was nearly noon in London before the news could be given to his eldest daughter, Elizabeth, who was thousands of miles away in Kenya.
She had taken the King's place on a Commonwealth tour.
A courtier saw her as she was preparing to return to London.
She was sitting erect, no tears, colour up a little, fully accepting what lay ahead.
The new Queen was 25 years old.
For the first 11 years of her life, that is until the abdication of her uncle, King Edward VIII, neither she nor her father had expected that they would, in turn, ascend to the throne.
It was the last thing that her father, who loved a quiet family life and had a disabling stammer, wanted to happen.
He was initially terrified.
But the Queen's father didn't turn away like his brother.
He did his duty.
The Queen has followed this example.
This aspect of the Queen's upbringing and character needs to be taken into account if the many assessments that will be made of her during this golden jubilee year are to be fair.
In the hereditary system the task falls to you.
Your only choice is whether to do it conscientiously or not.
Even to do it to the best of your ability, unremittingly, for 50 long years and more?
Yes, if that is how it turns out.
When her father was king, Elizabeth used to look through the windows of Buckingham Palace at the people and cars in the Mall wondering what they were doing, where they were going, what they were thinking.
Nobody else has had such a life, with its isolation, with its ceaseless pressure, with its stern requirements.
When still only 21 she made a famous public vow in a broadcast during a visit to South Africa: 'I declare before you all that my whole life, whether it be long or short, shall be devoted to your service and the service of our great imperial family to which we all belong.'
Substitute 'Commonwealth' for 'imperial', and it can be see that she has fully kept her promise.
Now I say that for doing a difficult, arduous job for half a century, the Queen deserves heartfelt thanks.
On this point, it is irrelevant whether one is a monarchist or a republican.
Indeed, the monarchical system is the more unforgiving.
We watch and we criticise whomever the hereditary principle places, willing or unwilling, capable or incapable, on the throne.
Many years ago the Queen told her riding master that had she not been who she was, she would like to have been a lady living in the country with lots of horses and dogs.
How should the nation's thanks be expressed?
Many local authorities remain reluctant to organise or finance celebrations.
They are waiting, I think, to read the public mood.
This hasn't yet formed.
But it will become clear.
At the last jubilee, 25 years ago, the result was that a large number of spontaneously organised street parties took place all over the country.
On the death of Princess Diana, a completely different feeling quickly manifested itself.
It was grief-stricken, but also cross with the royal family for its cool response.
The golden jubilee mood will be, I think, warm, grateful and respectful.
Street parties may well seem inappropriate this time.
That doesn't matter.
For the plans already in place are quite sufficient for the occasion.
Starting with Cornwall on 1 May, the Queen is making a series of visits to all parts of the United Kingdom.
She finishes in Lancashire on 5 August.
In the middle of this period will be a concentrated four days of festivities.
On 1 June and 4 June respectively, free classical and a pop concerts will be held in the gardens of Buckingham Palace, on 2 June jubilee churches services and bell ringing will take place across the country and the next day a procession with the gold state coach will go to St Paul's Cathedral for a thanksgiving service, followed by lunch at the Guildhall.
In 1960, the Queen asked President de Gaulle, who had come on a state visit, what he thought her role should be.
He perfectly understood: 'In the station to which God has called you, be who you are Madam, that is to say the person in whom your people perceive its own nationhood, and by whose presence and dignity that national unity is upheld.'
Presence and dignity.
Those she has provided.
Even in these days of trans-Channel Europhoria, our European allies are still some way away from agreeing a joint foreign or social, let alone education policy.
So it was quite a feat for the London ambassadors of four major European nations to co-ordinate a joint message to the government and people of Britain, regretting the 'sad' state of language teaching in this country.
Their complaint - that British schools are so uninterested in languages that European schools find it hard to arrange school exchanges - was nicely timed to catch the latest instalment of our continuing national debate about linguistic competence, which is conducted under the working title: 'Why are we so awful at languages?'
With all due deference to Their Excellencies, and considerable trepidation, I would venture another view about the British and their linguistic abilities, and I do so from the rare - but thankfully not yet unique - position of being, by training, a British linguist.
Contrary to common belief, here and abroad, a British linguist is not a contradiction in terms.
This country does produce a respectable crop of graduate linguists.
Most leave university thoroughly competent in one, more often two, foreign languages.
Their university course will have included a spell abroad, perhaps as long as a year.
Many of these graduates will also have studied two or three foreign languages at school, one or more to A-level.
The armed forces and the diplomatic service train their own staff in so-called 'hard languages', such as Arabic or Japanese, as and when they need them.
These diverse routes to language acquisition may not be the most efficient use of resources, but they yield results.
British linguists are among the best in the world.
When we put our minds to learning languages, we learn them systematically and well.
I defy anyone to say that a native English speaker has a worse ear for languages than a native French, German, Italian or Spanish speaker.
Where we are genuinely deficient is in making every pupil proficient in at least one foreign language.
And here motivation is a large part of the problem.
It is not only practical and necessary for most foreigners to be able to speak English, it is also - and at school this is crucial - fashionable.
However routine and boring English lessons at schools in France and Germany may be, many pupils will go home and listen to CDs or surf the internet in English.
London hardly needed the now abandoned Cool Britannia campaign to attract young Europeans.
It is seen - even in Paris, Madrid and Rome - as the youth capital of Europe.
That is not the only reason for the one-sidedness of applications for school exchanges.
English is the first foreign language in most European schools.
Even if all British children learning French took part in an exchange to a French school and vice versa, there would still be the German, Italian, Spanish, Austrian, Dutch, and Belgian schools that would want an exchange with a British school.
There are simply not enough British schools or pupils to be exchanged.
Many young Britons are making quite a rational decision when they neglect their language classes - a decision that has little to do with the quality of the tuition.
There are many things that they will need in later life, but right now, with all the other demands of the national curriculum, language- learning seems more of a luxury than a necessity.
The first task for schools must be to convince young Britons that a foreign language is, if not necessary, then at least desirable.
Starting a first foreign language much earlier - seven is being suggested - would at least convey that it is a 'basic' rather than a supplement.
British reserve and adolescent shyness also make 11 arguably the worst time to start learning a foreign language in a big class.
Despite the howls from many of my fellow linguists, I also tend to support the Education Secretary, Estelle Morris, in allowing 14-year-olds to abandon their foreign language.
If they have no interest or are not making progress by then, it is a waste of everyone's time and money for them to continue.
The corollary, though, should be not just the earlier start to language-learning, but the provision of more opportunities, in the form of subsidised non-school courses, later in life, when need, inclination and interest might all coincide.
To that end, universities and colleges should be encouraged to open up their language training facilities to as wide a participation as possible.
The combination that I took at school - Classics, German and Russian - is now even less available in schools than it was then, despite the promise that big comprehensives would make 'minority' subjects more viable.
In the future, it will probably still be the few - those whose interest is tweaked by travel, foreign friends or a sympathy for language - who form the next generation of 'British linguists', but let's give far more people a chance.
Every year, each student will spend at least 4,500 on living costs, such as rent, travel and food.
On top of that will be tuition costs, averaging around 3,000 over the study period.
Research shows that an average student will expect to owe around 7,000 by the time they have completed their university studies.
