 Our best scientists used to be confined to university research.
Now Britain is profiting from their genius.
Some criticisms of Britain come and go, others seem impossible to shift.
For nearly a century, this country has lived with a sorry fact: we have a disproportionate number of the world's most inventive scientific minds, but are truly terrible at exploiting them.
But all that is becoming a thing of the past.
The market bubble of 1999-2000 showed that science, in all its forms, has a huge capacity to excite.
Small, university- originated companies such as Osmetech, which makes a hi-tech 'nose', De Novo Pharmaceuticals, which makes gene-based medicine, and the nano- technology researcher Oxonica are just three that have sprung up and become the target of massive investment.
A wave of enthusiasm is washing over the UK's academic scientific community as the belief grows that its work may, finally, see the commercial light of day.
A lot of the problem has been structural.
The scientific brains have traditionally been locked away in academic institutions.
Within Britain's top universities, extraordinary advances in medical science, engineering and computing have been made, but found nowhere to go.
In recent years, the issue has been particularly acute in biotechnology, where the pace of progress in gene and protein discovery, and its application to medicine, has outstripped all expectations.
But now, spurred partly by the stock-market success of a few high-profile companies, vice chancellors have realised it is time to extract real value from their laboratory treasures.
The market bubble may have burst, but there are still plenty of venture capitalists ready to dish money out to good ideas, and the academic world is playing its part.
The products of these collaborations are known as spin-outs, and they are fast becoming the pride and joy of the universities.
Spin-out companies, both small and large, are emerging from their alma maters at the rate of more than 10 a month.
Two factors are at work.
The first is that the Government, under fire for not making more of British research and fearing another 1960s-style brain drain, has set up funding for the commercialisation of research in universities.
The second is that the universities themselves have been even more energetic in setting up bodies to promote the spin-outs.
Each has gone about it in a different way, but among the top research faculties, the results have been similar.
As Peter Hiscocks, director of the Cambridge Entrepreneurship Centre (CEC), says: 'There has been an important change of culture and there is starting to be a real entrepreneurial spirit among academics.
A lot of it has been about giving scientists a confidence many of them did not have.'
As the universities have embraced industry via the spin-outs, they have encountered many of the problems regularly faced by industry, such as the ownership of intellectual property (IP), funding and equity distribution.
Coping with these has become a crucial task for these newly formed enterprise bodies.
Oxford University has produced some of the highest-profile spin-outs in recent years, achieving a particular string of successes in biotechnology.
Listed companies such as PowderJect, Oxford Glycosciences and Oxford Biomedica fall into this category, but have been joined more lately by spin-outs such as Oxford Ancestors, which uses DNA links to track genealogy, and Oxford BioSignals, which works in neuroscience.
Oxford's success is largely due to its early adoption of spin-outs.
In 1988 the university set up Isis, a subsidiary devoted to finding ways to commercialise its research.
As its director, Tom Hockaday, says: 'Though efforts have increased recently, for 14 years Isis has been helping scientists to spin out companies.
Most of our time is spent explaining to the university how industry works and to industry about how the university works.'
Oxford has traditionally maintained ownership of all the IP created by its research departments, and taken stakes in the spin-outs.
Very recently, it adopted a unique partnership with a company called IP2IPO, a venture half owned by the investment bank Beeson Gregory.
In a deal struck last year, Oxford received 20m to build a new chemistry lab on the basis that IP2IPO would have the rights to 50 per cent of the value of any IP generated in the chemistry department over the next 15 years.
The structure has already produced two advanced materials spin-outs: Inhibox and Pharminox.
Cambridge, meanwhile, has adopted a different approach.
Situated at the heart of Silicon Fen amid 1,500 hi-tech firms, Cambridge has long been a powerhouse of commercialised scientific research.
But much of it has arrived there without being closely tied to the university.
Its emphasis is on education; it does not want to be seen to be pushing academics, but is dedicated to making it easier for them if they want to go commercial.
'Our mission is to build an entrepreneurial culture at Cambridge University, by teaching skills to the sort of people that will make ventures successful.
We have signed up thousands of students to our 18 courses: one of the most popular is the 'Basics of Building a Business',' says CEC director Mr Hiscocks.
For spin-outs that take contracts out with the three- year-old CEC, the university helps with finding investors and arranging mentoring by some of its older success stories, and takes a 3 per cent equity stake.
Now working at the rate of two deals a week, Cambridge has produced 120 spin-outs over the past 10 years.
Two of the most famous are ARM and Autonomy, which rapidly rose to the ranks of the FTSE 100.
More recent spin-outs include Akubio, a ground-breaking technology that allows accurate virus detection from 'dirty' blood samples.
One 'innovations faculty' that is close to breaking even belongs to London's Imperial College.
Its body, Imperial College Innovations, has produced 50 spin-outs since 1997.
As its director, Brian Graves, explains, the IP belongs to the college at first.
Then, once the spin- out is complete, it is assigned to the new entity and Imperial takes a chunk of equity.
Turbo Genset, the power generation company, is among its most famous sons, and ones to watch include Powerlase and CERES in engineering, and Gene Expression Technologies in biotech.
A similar approach has been taken at Southampton University.
Its body, the Centre for Enterprise and Innovation (CEI), has produced several highly commercial pieces of research, and the flow of spin-outs is rising fast.
Its director, Tony Raven, says: 'We try to be pragmatic.
If there is just one good idea, we try to sell it to a company.
But if the idea looks as though it will lead to a string of other ideas that can be commercialised, we encourage the creation of a spin-out.
Photonics is the prime example.'
A very different, but highly successful approach has come from UMIST in Manchester.
Unlike other universities, UMIST has set up its own venture capital-style company to carry the scientific research through the whole process of incorporation.
Its chief executive, Clive Rowland, is firm: 'Some universities use a general ward approach, with a consultant coming in every so often.
We prefer an intensive care approach.
We are on top of the project all the time, and we accordingly have very few casualties.
We don't like the sink or swim mentality.'
Significantly, researchers at UMIST own their IP from the outset.
Prime successes have been Phototherapeutics, a medical company, and VICs, a pioneer of video imaging on mobile phones.
The spin-out era is clearly upon us, and many believe it could have enough impetus to blow away the traditional shortcomings of British industry's relationship with science.
As Chris Wright, chief executive of IP2IPO, says: 'This is the perfect time to be in the business of scientific and hi-tech spin-outs.
The Government is ready, industry is ready, the academics are ready and the investors are ready.'
With most big companies admitting that the days of their final salary pension scheme are numbered, many employees will find themselves with a smaller retirement income than they may have anticipated.
Ernst & Young and Iceland both recently closed their final salary schemes, not only to new members but to future contributions from existing members.
The schemes are thought too risky and expensive because of the poor performance of the stock market, the rise in life expectancy and Labour's tax raid on pension funds since 1997.
To ease the burden, the Government last week announced that it was relaxing the minimum funding requirement (MFR), which ensures that pension funds have enough cash to pay people on retirement.
But much of the damage has already been done.
In the past 10 years, says the TUC, the number of people in final salary plans has fallen by 1.8 million, leaving just 3.8 million in the schemes.
So what has happened to those who have lost their final salary benefits?
Only 200,000 are likely to have transferred to money purchase schemes, leaving 1.6 million fewer people with any form of occupational pension.
And with the recent acceleration in the closure of final salary schemes, the real decline may be even higher.
'Over the last decade, both employers and the state have been shifting responsibility for pensions provision on to individual employees, many of whom have no idea how poor they will be when they retire or simply do not have the spare cash to make the savings needed to build up a sufficient pension pot of their own,' says John Monks, TUC General Secretary.
Final salary schemes guarantee that you will get a fixed proportion of your salary, usually two- thirds, in retirement.
But when employers close them, they are usually replaced with defined contribution - or money purchase - schemes, which have no such guarantee.
The final pension is not determined by final salary but by a combination of the performance of the underlying investments and annuity rates at retirement.
They are much cheaper for employers, as their contributions tend to be much lower, while the employee takes on all the stock market risk.
If you find yourself in this position, much will depend on the benefits built up in your final salary scheme so far, which should be safe.
There are fears that those nearing retirement will be worst hit, as they will have less time to do anything about the changes, but if you have been a member of your final salary scheme for a long time, the chances are that it will still make up a significant part of your pension.
Those likely to feel the greatest impact are employees in their late thirties or early forties.
'With final salary schemes, the value of the employer's contribution increases the older you get,' says Adrian Boulding, pensions strategy director at Legal & General.
'So at the age of 20 your employer might pay 5 per cent of salary, increasing to 20 per cent by the age of 55.
If you are turfed out of your final salary scheme into money purchase halfway through your career, you will never get the high-value contribution.
These people are really going to lose out and are most likely to need to top up their pensions.'
Everybody's situation is different, and it is a good idea to get independent financial advice.
If you are on higher earnings with complex benefits arrangements, you may be able to negotiate with your employer to fund this advice.
Most employers will offer a money purchase scheme in place of the final salary pension.
If you have a choice, do your sums carefully before accepting, as it is likely to mean a huge loss for you.
'If you are offered the option of staying with the final salary scheme or moving over to a money purchase scheme, as many firms are giving their staff, you should stay put,' advises Donna Bradshaw, director of independent financial adviser Fiona Price & Partners.
'The money purchase scheme may have very high employer contributions, but even so, you are better off with the final salary scheme.'
If your only option is to join a money purchase scheme, it is worth doing so, as your employer will contribute.
Work out how much this will be and how much it will cost to replace the benefits you would have received as part of your final salary scheme, such as life cover.
Compare this with how much you think you will need to live on in retirement.
You will have to make up the shortfall, which may be possible through additional contributions to your employer's money purchase scheme.
Alternatively, your company may have an additional voluntary contribution (AVC) scheme that you can put money into.
Or you could opt for a stakeholder-style plan: if you earn less than 30,000, you can invest in a stakeholder alongside your money purchase scheme.
'What is important is to shop around,' advises Mr Boulding, 'and find out which is the most attractive vehicle in terms of the charges and range of investments.'
The Sangatte refugee camp has become the focus for the xenophobic tendency on this side of the Channel.
But the existence of the camp does not give rise to the nightly game of train-hopping at rail yards near the French tunnel entrance.
As the chief executive of the Refugee Council said yesterday, Sangatte is a 'symptom not the cause' of the pressure generated by people wanting to come to Britain.
Asylum-seekers and economic migrants are desperate to get to these shores, not because of the cornucopia of state benefits which are available (they are not), nor because we are unusually soft when it comes to enforcing immigration laws (we are not), but because we speak English and have a strong, full-employment economy.
The British should regard the modern siege of Calais as a compliment and a potential benefit, rather than a threat.
This country can gain a great deal, as it has in the past, from the determination, hard work and enterprise of immigrants.
Many of those refused refugee status should be invited to settle here and make a contribution to our economic and cultural life.
There are always likely to be, however, more people who want to come than will be granted permission, and so borders will have to be policed.
As an island nation, the practicalities are simpler than they are for other EU countries.
But the saga of Sangatte has shown that, in immigration matters, no country is an island.
Ideally, a common immigration and asylum policy should be agreed at EU level.
That would make a reality of the idea of European citizenship.
Sadly, such an enforceable agreement is unlikely in the near future.
However, if David Blunkett develops his plans to allow limited immigration - in addition to our duty of compassion towards those fleeing persecution - it will make it easier to control the train-riders and lorry- jumpers throughout the European transport network.
If economic migrants are offered the prospect of legal entry, they will be marginally less likely to resort to desperate means of entry.
