 After England's overwhelming defeat of the admired Ireland - how long ago it now seems - the London press, sober broadsheets as much as xenophobic tabloids, outdid even Welsh supporters of the 1970s in lack of realism and sheer conceit; which is saying something.
I did not undervalue the victory over an Ireland side who, as they showed against Scotland on Saturday, can pile up points even though they may be losing the set pieces.
What I did do, several times, was warn against a French team in Paris who had already beaten South Africa and New Zealand before Christmas.
True, several of the young backs who had participated in those wins (every bit as significant as England's at Twickenham) were unavailable to the French coach, Bernard Laporte.
But it was still clear he was moving towards the side he wanted, despite the disappointing performances against Italy and Wales.
Accordingly, I find myself slightly in the position of the late politician William Whitelaw, speaking on the Prom at Brighton to a friend and myself.
Edward Heath had just told the Tory conference that it would be wrong to gloat over the misfortunes of the Labour government of the late 1970s.
'I can tell you,' Whitelaw said, 'that I'm gloating like hell.'
It is one thing to be buoyed up with confidence; quite another to believe you are the best in the world.
It is doubtful whether the England players really thought that.
But no one could have blamed them if they had.
They were certainly told it often enough over the past fortnight.
For this delusion the newspapers are primarily responsible.
They fell for the Zurich financial services company's computer calculations with all the uncritical enthusiasm of a nine-year-old presented with a PlayStation on his birthday.
A few months ago I was seated next to a suit from Zurich at a luncheon.
He was a perfectly agreeable companion, a Scot, as many of these insurance coves seem to be.
He said that few people seemed to know what Zurich was or what it did.
Hence the company's sponsorship of various activities and, in particular, its involvement in rugby union.
Nothing wrong with this.
The company wants publicity and is prepared, up to a point, to pay for it.
But the claim that a computer calculation can determine which country is, at any given moment, top of the world is frankly preposterous.
There is certainly a way of arriving at such a conclusion.
This is not through the World Cup, which is partly dependent on the luck of the draw.
It is, rather, through a competition involving Australia, England, France, New Zealand and South Africa.
The countries would play one another home and away - something that does not happen in the Six Nations' Championship, though it should.
The competition could, I estimate, be completed before Christmas if it started early enough in the autumn.
Alternatively, there is no reason whatsoever why it should not be held in the summer which, in northern Europe at any rate, is an entirely suitable season for rugby.
The championship could be held at four-yearly intervals, by setting the gap between World Cups.
I do not, I may say, seriously suppose that such a competition will come about in the immediate future or, perhaps, ever.
But it would be preferable to the somewhat haphazard pre-Christmas matches and the even more capriciously arranged summer tours.
And it would dispose of pieces of nonsense like the Zurich computer.
It is doubtful whether England would have won in Paris whatever plan they had adopted, or however quick-witted they might have been in varying it.
The surprising thing about the match was not so much that England did not adopt Plan B, if there was one.
It was more that, according to several reports, they failed to implement Plan A.
Certainly, it was madness to think, as they presumably did once on the pitch, that they could beat this or, indeed, virtually any French side by running at them from inside their own 22.
Martin Johnson foolishly chose to kick to touch near the goal-line when he should have taken the three penalty points on offer - though, to be fair, Jason Robinson's try came from one such adventurous decision.
On other occasions Robinson, Kyran Bracken, Jonny Wilkinson and Will Greenwood, who otherwise had a fine match, were all culpable in failing to boot the ball into touch when they had the opportunity.
At one point Johnson, urging this course, looked round in despair.
I sympathised slightly.
The French crowd treated him as if he were the Demon Poisoner of Alsace who, along with the President's African Diamonds and the Headless Corpse in the Bois de Boulogne, is one of the staple subjects of French newspaper stories.
Much worse things than Johnson's punch at Vicarage Road go on in French club rugby every single weekend of the season.
Last year, the number of teachers resigning from state schools doubled.
Sarah Cassidy looks at how ministers are trying to staunch the haemorrhage.
The teacher shortage crisis has not gone away, according to official statistics posted on a government website this week.
Teacher vacancies have almost doubled in a year, leaving state schools short of more than 5,000 teachers, with nearly 2,700 of these in secondary schools.
The new figures come in the same months as Mike Tomlinson, the chief inspector of schools, warned that teacher shortages have become a 'real' problem threatening to jeopardise standards in schools.
And a recent study conducted for the National Union of Teachers found that almost 60 per cent of trainee teachers leave the profession within three years of entering the classroom.
The number of full-time teachers resigning doubled from 26,000 in 1998 to 52,000 last year, with each secondary school losing an average of 10 teachers.
Yet despite these gloomy predictions there are now 7,000 more teachers in schools than 12 months ago, and 12,000 more than in 1997.
That is because many heads with healthy school balances have used the money to create extra jobs.
Meanwhile entries to teacher training in England are at their highest level for seven years.
However, there are still nowhere near enough secondary school recruits.
Teacher recruitment experts warn that the situation could reach a new crisis point in September when a new, larger cohort of 11-year-olds threatens to swell secondary school rolls by around 40,000 pupils.
More than 2,000 extra teachers will be needed just to keep class sizes at their current levels, say teacher recruitment experts.
The teacher shortage 'meltdown' predicted by teaching unions, however, has so far failed to materialise.
Schools have not been forced to run four-day weeks but many are struggling with vacancies that are proving impossible to fill.
This is because head teachers are using every 'weapon at their disposal' to ensure that children do not have to be sent home, says David Hart, general secretary of the National Association of Head Teachers.
Heads are relying on supply staff, getting existing staff to cover for vacancies, rearranging the timetable or even teaching children in large groups.
'Essentially, schools have only kept going by relying on the good will of the existing staff.
But this does not always mean that pupils are getting a good deal,' argues Alan Smithers, director of Liverpool University's centre for education and employment.
'Staff may be expected to teach outside their subject or the continuity of children's education could be put at risk by a succession of supply staff.'
A growing number of supply teachers is being used to plug the gaps.
Of the 465,000 teachers in the country, around 19,000 are supply staff, compared with just over 12,000 in 1995.
John Howson, managing director of Education Data Surveys, estimates that supply teachers are costing schools more than 600 million, with agencies taking about 200 million of that total.
'In secondary, it's quite clear that the Government's training grants and golden hellos are having a significant difference in some subjects,' he says.
'However, there is still concern that even with the increased number of applications it's still not going to be enough to hit the targets in some subjects, such as maths.'
Hart warns that this trend is draining schools' budgets, arguing that the cost of supply staff has 'gone through the roof'.
It can cost schools up to 200 a day to hire a supply teacher, he says.
One London school has spent 37,000 on supply staff, according to Mr Hart.
Supply agencies have received a spate of bad publicity recently.
One agency, Timeplan, found itself at the centre of a storm of criticism in the wake of the trial of Amy Gehring, the Canadian supply teacher cleared of indecently assaulting school boys, but who admitted having behaved inappropriately.
The agency had failed to pass on a warning that Miss Gehring might pose a risk to children.
Ofsted has also found problems with the quality of supply staff, saying that they often missed out on specialist training and were not as good as permanent teachers.
Tomlinson's 2000-01 annual report concluded: 'They perform less well than any other category of teacher, with less than half of their lessons being good or better compared with two- thirds of the lessons of qualified and permanent members of staff.
In the most extreme cases, the difficulty of recruiting sufficient teachers to teach every class in the school is a major issue.'
Inspectors found that in secondary schools, one in 25 vacancies was filled by supply teachers.
This was having a damaging effect on subjects including modern foreign languages, science and religious education, they concluded.
Schools received their share of the blame for failing to give supply staff enough advice on lesson planning, teaching methods and how to manage behaviour, Ofsted added.
The situation was worst in deprived areas.
'The proportion of poor teaching was considerably higher among temporary or supply teachers,' said the Inspectorate.
'In schools serving disadvantaged communities, one third of the lessons taught by these teachers was unsatisfactory or poor.'
But the agencies themselves cite Ofsted's other finding - that teaching standards in general have never been higher - and argue that supply staff should share the credit for this success.
David Rose, of Select Education, an agency that finds supply staff 15,000 days of work every week, admits that temporary teachers can be 'slightly outside the loop' for the latest training but argues that the agency spent 300,000 on training its supply staff last year.
'I think that schools appreciate what we do because they realise that without the agencies these jobs would be much harder to fill,' he says.
'We put in a lot of work matching the right people to the right job.
We are not just there for emergency cover - we also help head teachers find long- term solutions to hard-to-fill vacancies.
Up to 60 per cent of our people are in long-term positions of a month or more.
It's only really where there is a real shortage of teachers in certain subjects in secondary schools that there's a real problem.'
Estelle Morris, the Education Secretary, promised to make tackling teacher shortages her top priority when she was promoted after last summer's General Election.
She insists that the Government's recruitment and retention efforts are having an effect and plans to 're-model' the profession to encourage schools to make more use of classroom assistants.
'All the evidence is that what we are doing on recruitment is working and what I'm sure about, as part of retention, is giving teachers more support.
The money is there but the culture and structure to buy in that support, rather than always buy extra teachers, isn't there,' Ms Morris said recently.
Head teachers believe, however, that more needs to be done to make teaching more attractive.
The official figures tell only half the story, they argue.
And the teacher shortage is far worse than even the latest statistics suggest, they warn.
'Improvements to recruitment and retention of teachers can only be won by making the job much more attractive both to those already doing it and to potential recruits,' says John Dunford, general secretary of the Secondary Heads Association.
No one is accusing the Government of complacency.
According to David Hart, general secretary of the National Association of Head Teachers, ministers believe that the improved teacher recruitment figures will do the trick.
The challenge is to stop the haemorrhage of staff from the profession because of stress and excessive workload.
'If the Chancellor does not produce the money to deliver a decent workload reduction package then I believe the situation is really quite grim,' he says.
American computer giant IBM is so obsessed with miniaturisation that it is diverting huge resources into building microscopic computers.
The company, which spends $6bn (4.2bn) a year on research and development, has decided that the future lies in machines that are practically invisible to the naked eye.
IBM will be spending a 'significant proportion' of its research budget on the science of nanotechnology, the process of making devices the size of a single molecule.
Some analysts believe the project will run into billions of dollars.
IBM's excitement over the potential of nanotechnology has been spurred to new heights by a report by the US National Science Foundation which forecasts that the global nanotech market will be worth $1 trillion (700bn) in the next 10 years.
That growth will be achieved by making many existing technologies redundant.
'This will be very disruptive stuff,' a spokesman said.
The company believes it will shortly be possible to string molecule-sized processors together to form a tiny but enormously powerful computer, and that it may eventually be possible to shrink the supercomputers that now fill rooms to the size of a wristwatch.
IBM is investigating many potential uses for the new technology, including the design of self-repairing materials and machines.
Another use is producing sensors that can detect infinitesimal changes in atomic structure.
This is expected to lead to devices that can instantly detect biological or chemical weapons, an idea that has caused great interest in the Pentagon.
But IBM's chief focus will be on the potential computing power of nanotechnology.
The group has created a prototype of a transistor that uses carbon rather than silicon.
The different material allows its inventors to produce a transistor 50,000 times thinner than a human hair.
IBM researchers have even speculated that nanotechnology could replace silicon chips and hard disks because information will eventually be able to be stored at the atomic level.
IBM's drive to embrace nanotechnology coincides with growing interest from global governments and investors.
A US government initiative has an annual budget of $604m, and other countries are pushing ahead too.
